Best Vacuum Cleaner (2025): Cordless Vacuums, Robot Vacuums, Dysons | WIRED
Looking for all our top recommended vacuums? Here are our favorites in every style we’ve tested, from stick vacs to robot vacuums.
All products featured on WIRED are independently selected by our editors. However, we may receive compensation from retailers and/or from purchases of products through these links.
kind of vacuum here at WIRED, and we’ve put together this list noting the best vacuum cleaner for every category we’ve tried. That testing range covers powerful
If you're looking for one place to find all of our top vacuum recommendations, this is it. From our favorite stick vacuums, the
, there’s a vacuum here for every kind of cleaning task. Check out all of our favorite vacuum cleaner for every cleaning style below.
Looking for our guides that dive into each category? Check out our guide to the
If you’re looking for a reliable, powerful, but not extremely expensive
the Bissell PowerClean FurFinder is the one for you. This is similar to the popular Bissell IconPet Turbo stick vacuum, but it's new this year. The PowerClean FurFinder has everything you want in a good stick vacuum: three power levels you can easily control, a big headlight to spot dust, and a nice set of attachments, plus it stands up by itself.
This vacuum's name comes from the included 6-inch FurFinder head, which is a small head that’s designed for vacuuming up pet hair. It worked great on my cat tree and left the upholstery looking new. The dust cup pops off easily, and the build quality is solid for the price point. It has a HEPA filter to keep debris from just recirculating into the air. It's all around a great vacuum for the price, and it's usually on sale, too.
I love this affordable stick vacuum from Ryobi. It has powerful suction of up to 89 IOW with cyclonic filtration, an easily removable roller bar for cleaning, and lights on the vacuum head to better see the debris. It has both plush and brush rolls for hard and carpet flooring, where they move together to suck up pet hair without getting tangled. The vacuum uses two HEPA filters, the dust cup is convenient to empty, and the vacuum stands upright unsupported. Plus, its easily removable and rechargeable battery makes it easy to charge separately (without having to lug the whole vacuum to an outlet), and the battery is compatible with Ryobi’s line of various other tools. It also doubles as a handheld vac, and it comes with crevice tools and a dust brush for cleaning in smaller areas and furniture. This cordless vacuum far exceeded my expectations for this relatively low price point. —
Mini-motorized beater bar, crevice tool, dust brush, micro crevice tool, accessory holder and docking station
models, but the V15 Detect is the best in Dyson's lineup with a reasonable price—for a Dyson, that is—and a good mix of features. Time and time again, though, the power of a Dyson vacuum can't be beat, especially the power and attachments the V15 Detect has.
It gets a deeper clean in my carpet than cheaper vacuums, and the sensor in the vacuum can actually tell you how many particles it's picking up if you want to get into the data. There's a nice range of attachments, including the Fluffy Optic cleaner head that has a green laser to find dust and debris on hard floors. It does have a trigger-style power button, so you'll have to hold it down the entire time you use it. That can be annoying if you know you want to use it on a lot of carpet or hard floors, but it's handy for target-cleaning areas like staircases. It's an all-around great vacuum and noticeably more powerful than cheaper options if you have the budget to splurge.
Fluffy Optic cleaner head, Digital Motorbar cleaner head, hair screw tool, combination tool, and crevice tool
and has an interesting set of features. Unlike other robot vacuums, it doesn't have a bag, but instead has a design similar to a Dyson vacuum with a canister that cycles debris in a circle to keep it from clogging. It also has a fast-charging system that will frequently top up the battery, so the vacuum won't have to take a break to recharge for a while in the middle of cleaning larger homes. It uses Lidar and RGB cameras, multifloor mapping, and a dual-function mop and vacuum. There's also Matter compatibility, a climbing driving wheel for tricky flooring spots, and AI-enabled smarts to switch cleaning modes. There's also both a regular cleaning fluid and a heavy-duty fluid you can put into the vacuum and switch between, but the heavy-duty solution is harder to find.
All and all, it's a great robot vacuum, particularly for the self-emptying canister design. It's not perfect, however: WIRED reviewer Adrienne So has found that the lid can fall of and be annoying to replace when she checks the roller, and the driving wheels can be confused on different surfaces in her home, forcing her to tap the wheels to get them working again.
WIRED reviewer Adrienne So has been testing gear for over a decade, and the
Matic robot vacuum is the only 10/10 review she's ever given
. She calls it a game-changer robot vacuum for a reason.
There are several reasons for this, actually. First off, its six RGB infrared cameras create a seamless, detailed 3D model of your home, allowing the vacuum to see above itself and in the dark. Its map isn't relative, so it doesn't get confused when you move the vacuum or a single piece of furniture like a chair. The waste bag will contain wet and dry debris, so no more emptying the dirty brown water after every cleaning session. It can actually clean the toe kicks under your kitchen counters, and is quiet enough that you can run it while still being able to watch TV. You can teach the vacuum to go around certain obstacles, plus share the app and control of the vacuum with your family members. For all those features, it's also a compact vacuum that also doesn't need a massive docking station. Plus, it's cute, too, with a more unique design than the sea of round robot discs.
It does have lower suction power than other vacuums we recommend, but this vacuum is thorough enough that So hasn't noticed a difference. She has, however, noticed that she can fill a waste bag in three days (Matic says one bag lasts one to four weeks, though). They're expensive to stock up on, and you can only get them on Matic's website. Still, it's worth noting that the waste bags are fantastic, with absorbent crystals, charcoal, and a HEPA filter in the bag itself.
This powerful, lightweight hand vacuum comes with brush and crevice tool attachments, and although the vacuum is powerful on its own, the dust brush worked well for cleaning fabrics and effectively brushed up pet hair, and the crevice tool was small enough to fit between upholstery and hard-to-reach places in my car. Emptying the vacuum’s debris was simple, with a button to eject the dust cup, and the vac has a dual HEPA filter system that untwists when it’s time to be cleaned.
Plus, like other Ryobi tools, it attaches to a rechargeable 18-volt lithium-ion battery pack for power (which also helps to conserve space), and the battery works with other Ryobi tools. This multifunctional tool boasts 37-inch sealed suction IOW (inches of water) suction power, holds almost three cups, and has a three-year warranty. I consider it a great value at less than $100.
I have a toddler, which means I'm constantly battling messy cars. I've tried a slew of car-designed vacuums, with longer hoses and promises of easier cleans. My favorite by far is the cube-shaped Worx vacuum, which proves something can be both
The handle on top of its boxy form is comfortable to hold, and the hose wraps around that handle when it's in storage. I found it most comfortable to hold the square base in one hand and the hose in the other as I moved around my car cleaning it, but the three-foot hose does mean you could put it down and reach plenty of spots in the car. It has a small dustbin, but was plenty for the sand and Cheerio debris that haunts our vehicles. It uses a power tool-style battery that pops off and charges in a base, and is a great choice if you have other Worx tools (and batteries!) in your garage.
This is another cool handheld vacuum that's great for cars, or even indoor areas like staircases. It has a 4-foot hose, longer than most compact vacuums, and has a handy little charging mount that the accessories clip into. And thank goodness for the charging mount, since the battery only lasts 15 minutes.
Dyson's latest handheld vacuum was designed specifically for cars (and boats!) in mind, so if you have a vehicle to clean, this is made for it. It's got a fantastic battery life compared to other handheld vacuums.
This is Dyson's current top of the line stick vacuum, and it's fantastic, especially for homes with a lot of pet hair. But it's expensive and rarely on sale, making it a hard upgrade when you'll still get a great experience with the Dyson V15 Detect. But this vacuum does have a HEPA filter, while the V15 Detect does not.
This is technically our top robot vacuum pick, but Roborock recently updated the Qrevo line with new models that aren't shipping to the United States, and the model we like best is only available secondhand.
If you want a cordless stick vacuum but don't want to deal with emptying it all the time,
comes with a self-emptying docking station. You'll eventually have to empty the station, but it's a great bonus feature and keeps the vacuum from falling over around your home since it's stored safely in the docking station.
Here's what makes each style of vacuum great to help you choose which one you should buy.
These vacuums look like the latter name suggests, with a long, sticklike arm that connects the vacuum head to the canister and controls. You'll need to hold this up in a way you wouldn't have to with an upright vacuum, but these are powerful and super mobile. They make for a great main vacuum, and are especially great if you have multiple floors to vacuum since it's easy to carry these up and down stairs.
Robot vacuums are great for cleaning for you, and are controlled with an app. There are several models that double as a mop, too. You'll have to spend time moving furniture for the best clean possible, and you usually still want a regular vacuum of some kind in your home. But these are great for frequent cleans with kids and pets.
Handheld vacuums are great for targeted cleans, or cleaning specific places like stairs and cars. Most stick vacuums can transform into a handheld vacuum, but true handhelds are much lighter and have a more compact design (but also sacrifice battery power and dustbin capacity).
An upright vacuum is the classic, original vacuum style that sits straight up on its own and is much heavier than cordless stick vacuums, and requires an outlet connection to work. We currently don't have an upright vacuum we recommend, since cordless stick vacuums have become the main focus for most shoppers (and as frequent vacuumers ourselves, we usually reach for cordless and robot vacuums anyways). We're considering upright vacuums to test in the future, however, and feel free to comment on this guide with models we should consider.
Do you need a handheld vacuum if you already have a cordless vacuum? Likely no, because most stick vacuums can transform into a handheld vacuum already. Stick or cordless vacuums usually allow you to remove the stick part from between the vacuum head and canister base and instead connect those two pieces directly, making it into a handheld vacuum. It'll be much heavier than a vacuum designed to always be handheld, and might be irritating if you have a specific use case you want it for, but you don't need both unless there's a specific reason. A handheld is a good add-on if you already have an upright vacuum you love that doesn't need replacing.
Vacuums last about five years, depending on the use frequency and build quality. Some cheaper stick vacuums might only last about a year or two, though, so it's worth investing in a better vacuum than finding a cheap dupe. If you're curious what signs might indicate your vacuum needs replacing, check out our
Get best-in-class reporting and exclusive subscriber content that's too important to ignore.
Nena Farrell is a writer and reviewer at WIRED. She primarily covers
. She’s been a reviewer at WIRED since 2023, and before that was a smart home updates writer at The New York Times’ Wirecutter and an associate ...
This Is the Nuclear-Powered Ship Deployed in Trump’s War on Drug Boats
is a $13 billion aircraft carrier sailing to the Caribbean with nuclear propulsion, an electromagnetic plane launcher, and 90 aircraft onboard.
Save 20% with an LG promo code today, plus up to $1,000 off appliances, 40% off bestselling TVs and monitors, and more early Black Friday bundle offers that won’t last long.
Save up to 40% today with the latest Home Depot coupons for appliances, power tools, and more this fall.
Elon Musk's Grokipedia Pushes Far-Right Talking Points
The new AI-powered Wikipedia competitor falsely claims that pornography worsened the AIDS epidemic and that social media may be fueling a rise in transgender people.
All-Clad’s Rotating Pizza Oven Is $800 Off List Price Today
The All-Clad pizza oven was one of my biggest surprises of the summer. For some reason, it's $800 off today.
All-Clad's Factory Seconds Sale Makes Gold-Standard Cookware More Affordable
All-Clad cookware is the best you can buy—and it has a price tag to match. This sale will stretch your dollars, but it ends in a few days.
Man Has Pig Kidney Removed After Living With It for a Record 9 Months
With the demand for human donor organs desperately outstripping supply, scientists are working to see if genetically edited pig organs can bridge the gap.
Sennheiser’s Awesome Wireless Earbuds Are Almost Half Off
These high-end earbuds sound great, and have a much-needed discount.
OpenAI Says Hundreds of Thousands of ChatGPT Users May Show Signs of Manic or Psychotic Crisis Every Week
OpenAI released initial estimates about the share of users who may be experiencing symptoms like delusional thinking, mania, or suicidal ideation, and says it has tweaked GPT-5 to respond more effectively.
The 7 Best Sunrise Alarm Clocks to Help You Rise and Shine
If you want to wake up with the sun but aren’t a morning person, these wake-up lights can simulate a sunrise whenever you want to rouse for the day. (And they do sunsets too.)
Gifts for Coworkers Who Are Hard to Shop for (so, All of Them)
You see them every single day (almost). Our curated guide features personalized gifts for every office personality, from your work bestie to the foodies.
Soup up your sound with these active and passive speakers. We have picks for every budget.
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.