7 Best Heated Blankets for Comfy, Cozy Warmth (2025) | WIRED
Stay toasty with our favorite electric heated blankets. After testing a handful, the Sleep Number Warming Blanket is our top pick.
All products featured on WIRED are independently selected by our editors. However, we may receive compensation from retailers and/or from purchases of products through these links.
sleepy quite like being warm. The best heated blanket can speed up the process of waiting for your bed to warm up, especially on cold nights. And if you live in a drafty house like mine, a heated blanket can keep you feeling cozy even if it’s windy outside. I’ve taken some of the best naps of my life testing heated blankets for this guide. Below, you’ll find my favorite picks for the best electric blankets, like the
. Prices are for queen size unless otherwise indicated.
Be sure to check out our many related buying guides, including the
Updated October 2025: We've added three new picks from GotCozy, BedSure, and Beautyrest. We've also ensured pricing and link accuracy throughout.
The Sleep Number Warming Blanket is on the higher end of the price scale, but it was the best I tested. It has adjustable dual controls for each side, split right down the middle (like a
, except each person can adjust warmth rather than mattress firmness). The blanket warms up quickly—I noticed it feeling warmer immediately after turning it on rather than after a few minutes of heating up, a mark of its high quality. The power cords are plenty long—from the controller to the blanket, 150 inches, and from the controller to the plug, 160 inches. The cords come out of the bottom of the blanket. The oval-shaped controller is easy to use: Dial the heat from “low” to "high” with nine levels in between, then press the button to turn it on.
Note that the Warm light from the controller stays on while the blanket is in use, but I didn’t find it to be too bright, and it certainly wasn’t disruptive. And since each side of the blanket has its own heating components, your partner’s warmth selection won’t affect yours or make you overheat. The polyester fabric feels soft and plush to the touch, and the heating components go almost all the way to the outer edge of the blanket (another rarity in this product space). They’re not super noticeable or rigid. Overall, this blanket is soft, easy to use for two people, and doesn't require preheating or waiting for it to start generating noticeable warmth.
) makes tons of affordable electric blankets. This reversible one is made of polyester—one side is plush fabric, and the other is a white fluffy sherpa material. The controller cord is slightly shorter than on the other heated blankets I’ve tried, though not by much. One flaw is that the light on this controller is blue, and since it stays on during use, it’s more obtrusive than the warm white and yellow lights on other blankets in this guide. I managed to wrangle it under my dresser to hide it while I slept, but I wish the light were a different color or at least a little dimmer. This blanket has a preheating mode that I love. You can turn it on and the blanket will automatically switch to heat level 10 for up to two hours before switching to level 5 for six hours. That’ll help “boost” the blanket’s immediate effectiveness and especially comes in handy during colder nights when it would typically take a while for your bed to heat up. The auto shut-off time goes up to 10 hours.
This blanket heats up quickly, even without the preheat mode. It’s a little on the thin side, and you can feel the wires if you look for them, but the fluffy material helps disguise their feel, and they’re not super bothersome. I also like that this blanket is available in some more fun colors like green and mauve. I think this would make an excellent basic heated blanket for the living room, keeping you toasty during movie nights.
This heated blanket from Brookstone is plush and cozy and is available in sizes ranging from twin to king. The queen and king sizes have two controllers, each with a long cord. The controller itself is wedge-shaped and offers extensive customization. Choose your heat level from 10 options, and the auto-shutoff time ranges from 30 minutes to 12 hours. There’s a soft, yellow light that stays on to indicate that the blanket is warming, but it’s not too bright or obtrusive. The buttons on the controller are a little loud and clicky, so if your bedmate is a noise-sensitive sleeper, you’ll want to dial in your settings before they fall asleep.
The polyester blanket is very soft and slippery, and it’s thinner than the Sleep Number above—you can feel the wires quite easily, which I didn’t love. But the blanket warms up quickly and stays warm throughout the night. If you want a solid heated blanket that won’t cost an arm and a leg, this may be the one you’re looking for.
The Lovesac Radiant Footsac is extremely plush. Your fingers sink into the faux fur on the top side, and the underside is a soft cotton-polyester blend. At 50 inches by 70 inches, this is a good throw size, or it could be used for one person in bed. My favorite part is the feature that sets it apart from the competition: There’s a built-in pocket for your feet! It’s roomy and takes up about the bottom sixth of the blanket. There’s a stitched portion holding the pocket closed in the middle, but it doesn’t go all the way through to the bottom, so you can tuck your feet into one side or stick a foot into both sides and have them touch. I thought initially that this might feel constricting, but it actually adds another layer of coziness that helps me bundle up and feel extra comfy. And it helps keep my feet warm, something that very few things have managed to accomplish. It almost feels like the blanket stays tucked under your body so you don’t have to keep rearranging it to keep the warmth in. Combine that ultra comfort with the super-soft luxe faux fur and you have yourself an excellent electric throw blanket. I’ve been toting mine around the house like an animal pelt.
This blanket has the least obvious inner electrical components of all the options I’ve tested. I like that you can choose a few different time frames for auto shut-off—it’s extra nice for napping. The remote has a small blue light that stays on during use, but it’s not too bright. I do wish the cord were slightly longer or that you could plug it in to both sides (it’s on the bottom-left corner). Despite those little details, I think this blanket is an excellent and luxurious pick if you’ve got the budget for it.
This Amazon bestseller may not be as high quality as blankets twice the price, but I'm surprised at how decent it is for less than 70 bucks. I tried out the Throw size, and it was perfect to drape over my lap. It definitely can't compare to the more expensive and luxurious end of our picks, but if you're on a very tight budget, or you want a solid throw option that isn't too hefty or stifling, it's worth considering. The polyester itself is soft, with a velourlike side and a sherpalike side. It's thin enough that you can feel the internal heating components very easily, but the blanket does come in a very wide variety of colors. There are only four heat settings and the automatic shutoff can't be changed, either. I don't think this heated blanket is going to be enough to use in bed on a cold winter night, but it is really nice to have on the sofa while watching a movie. It'd also make a good option for kiddos since it doesn't get too hot and the shutoff time is so short.
This reversible heated blanket from Beautyrest is thick, soft, and stretchy. I was immediately pleased upon touching it for the first time—it's just so cozy. And I really like that the sherpa side is the same color as the rest of the blanket, which lends it a more luxurious appearance than the standard cream sherpa that's often found on the reverse side of these products. This blanket heats up really quickly, which I was thankful for when testing it during the first 20-degree-Fahrenheit temperatures I encountered this year. And the inner heating components are easily disguised, so they're nearly impossible to feel unless you seek them out.
The only thing preventing this from being my top pick was the controller, which plugs into one side of the blanket (on the plush side, rather than on the very edge). This meant that if I wanted to have the sherpa side down, I needed to either plug the blanket into a new place, or contort it and myself to keep the controller in reach. The controller cord is quite thick and inflexible, and I find it a little ugly and oversized. I also wish that you could select the automatic shutoff time. But these are not dealbreakers, and I still think this blanket is worthwhile, especially if you don't want it to look like every other throw in your house.
This blanket from Bedsure feels thicker than it is thanks to its ribbed texture, which also helps to mask the feeling of the internal heating components. The polyester is sherpa on one side and soft, velvety fabric on the other. It's a bit slow to heat up compared to others I've tried, but it didn't take so long that it annoyed me. And I like the remote's sleek, small design and easy maneuverability. The blanket is lightweight, so it keeps you warm without being stifling. There are plenty of heat and timer settings, too. There are a staggering number of color options, including seasonal prints, so you should be able to find a design that suits you. If you want a solid heated blanket in a nonstandard design or color, this one is worth considering.
Dual-sided controls. Warms up quickly. Heating components go to the very edges.
Preheating mode. Wide variety of color options. Soft.
Long timer. Wide range of sizes. Several different controls and adjustments.
So very soft and plush. Built-in pocket for your cold feet.
I wish it came in bigger sizes. Cord is on the short side.
Bulky, somewhat obtrusive controller and cord. Only one automatic shutoff option.
Soft. Feels thicker than it is. Very unobtrusive remote.
I used each blanket for a minimum of seven hours each, both while lounging and while napping. I tested each feature and compared the softness, ease of use, durability, number of heat settings, thinness, and more factors to make my picks. I'm currently testing additional heated blankets, heated mattress pads, and heated blanket hoodies from brands like Sunbeam and Biddeford.
. But when it comes to safety features, modern heated blankets have come leaps and bounds past their predecessors. Look for independently tested blankets and bedding that have met safety standards (such UL or ETL). These agencies ensure that the blankets can handle wear and tear, that they don’t get too hot, that they’re machine washable, and more. Every blanket in this guide is ETL-certified.
Make sure to treat electric blankets gently. You don’t want to fold them tightly, ball them up, or otherwise damage the inner electric components. You shouldn’t use heavy bedding on top of heated blankets or wrap them too closely around your body—it can cause overheating. (I experienced this when I fell asleep underneath mine wrapped up like a burrito and woke up hours later drenched in sweat.)
You shouldn’t plug your blanket into an extension cord, and you should never leave the blanket on if you’re not using it. Keep it out of reach of pets, kids, or anyone with reduced heat sensitivity who might not be able to tell if they’re getting too hot. Make sure the heated blanket is fully dry after washing before you use it again. And finally, be on the lookout for anything amiss, like strange smells or spotty performance. If you encounter these scenarios, immediately unplug the blanket and reach out to the manufacturer for further instructions.
. Get best-in-class reporting and exclusive subscriber content that's too important to ignore.
. During her five-year tenure at WIRED and throughout her 12-year career, she has written about everything from food to sleep to video games. She previously wrote for Future PLC and Rakuten. She resides in ...
The Best Essential Oil Diffusers for Freshening Up Your House
Keep things smelling fresh with these handy home gadgets. After researching and testing several picks, the Urpower Aroma is our favorite for most people.
Pod coffee makers are a convenient way to get caffeinated. Of the eight we've tried so far, the Bruvi BV-01 is our top pick.
Get better posture, fewer back aches, and an ergonomic desk setup thanks to these top laptop stands and risers.
The Best Wi-Fi Routers to Reach Every Corner of Your Home
Don’t suffer the buffer. These WIRED-tested home routers will deliver reliable internet across your home, whatever your needs or budget.
We Tried 8 of the Most Popular Indoor Gardening Systems
Grow a backyard’s worth of greens and vegetables in your house with a vertical hydroponic garden. Here are a few that might be worth the investment.
We chugged chilled beverages to bring you our favorite coolers for every situation.
Make a house into a home with these gifts, whether your recipient is moving into their first house or a great new apartment.
Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs
Sitting at a desk for hours? Upgrade your WFH setup and work in style with these comfy WIRED-tested seats.
WIRED has tested 100-plus bed-in-a-box mattresses for a week each. Our top pick, the Helix Midnight Luxe hybrid, is the best bed you can buy online.
32 Gifts Teens May Actually Like (According to Our Kids)
Teenagers can be scary and impossible to shop for. From gaming chairs to cologne to slippers, these adolescent-approved gifts can help.
17 Best Couches You Can Buy Online and Get Delivered to Your Door
Refresh your space with a sofa that arrives right at your doorstep. We’ve spent years in search of the best couches—read about all the styles we’ve tested here.
The Best Dehumidifiers to Keep Your Home Cool and Dry
If you care about good air, it’s time for a dehumidifier. These are the best ones we've tested for everything from basements to drying laundry.
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.