How to Set Up a Google Home Security System: Best Cameras, Doorbells, and Other Devices | WIRED
If you want to secure your home, Google’s Nest range is one of the smartest and easiest ways. Here’s how.
All products featured on WIRED are independently selected by our editors. However, we may receive compensation from retailers and/or from purchases of products through these links.
for an expensive, professionally installed home security system for a little peace of mind. You can keep tabs on your home when you’re away, check in on your kids or pets, and discourage intruders with a few well-placed security cameras and connected devices. Easily the smartest option on the market right now, Google’s Nest cameras and doorbells are straightforward to install.
Here’s everything you need to know about getting started with home security using Google Home and Nest cameras.
First, you need to figure out how many cameras you need and where to place them. You’ll want to pay special attention to any points of entry to your home and think about where intruders are most likely to access your property. Think back doors, sliding doors, side doors, large downstairs windows, and your garage or other outbuildings. Try to consider potential blind spots.
It’s a good idea to install cameras in shaded spots, such as under eaves, to protect the lens from the glare of the sun and reduce the risk of overheating. But you also want cameras to be a visible deterrent, so don’t hide them away. Many intruders will be scared off by a camera with a green status light that shows it is recording.
. You need to also pick spots with a strong Wi-Fi signal and consider adjacent power for wired cameras. Setup is as simple as scanning a QR code in the Google Home app, screwing in a magnetic mount, and adjusting the camera angle for the best view. For
, you can also simply pop them on a shelf or wall mount them.
Google Nest Cam Indoor (2K, Wired, 3rd Gen) for $100
can record crystal clear 2K footage at 30 frames per second (fps) and has HDR to balance mixed lighting. It also offers two-way audio, which can be handy for checking in with the kids. Each camera comes with an adjustable mount and a 10-foot USB-C cable. You have a choice of colors: Snow (white), Hazel (gray-green), or a striking Berry (red). Place one in your hallway, and you can keep tabs on who is home and get alerts if any unfamiliar faces pop up.
Google Nest Cam Outdoor (2K, Wired, 2nd Gen) for $150
If you can run cables to power outlets, I recommend the newest
. Each camera comes with an 18-foot cable that plugs into an outlet, and a clever magnetic mount with all the fixings (you cannot hardwire it). You get clear video day or night in 2560 x 1400-pixel resolution at 30 fps with HDR. The Nest Cam Outdoor also has a wide 152-degree field of view and 6X digital zoom capability, so it can pick up on distant intruders or vehicles as they approach. This camera only comes in Snow or Hazel. Chances are you’ll need more than one, and you can save some cash with a
Although this is Google’s last-generation camera, which means footage is limited to 1080p resolution, it’s a great choice for driveways and other entrances because it includes powerful, motion-activated floodlights offering up to 2,400 lumens of bright light (for context, a 60-watt bulb puts out around 800 lumens). Mount this above your garage and you’ll discourage intruders, and make life easier for yourself when you come home in the dark or have to take the trash out at night. The floodlight needs power, so you’ll have to hardwire this camera, though the camera itself operates on a battery. If the power goes out, it'll keep running for some time, though the floodlights won't turn on. There's a chance Google will release a version of its new Nest Cam Outdoor 2K with floodlights, but the company hasn't announced anything yet.
Maybe you have spots on your property that are tough to run cable to, or you’re renting and want to avoid drilling holes. Either way, Google’s battery-powered last-gen Nest Cam Outdoor has you covered. Footage is 1080p, but this camera supports HDR and offers a high frame rate (30 fps) for smooth video. It’s a bit larger to accommodate the battery, and you will have to charge it up occasionally (I’d say every two to three months if it’s in a busy spot). If you need multiple cameras you can save some cash by opting for a
are the ideal way to keep an eye on your family’s comings and goings, any package deliveries, and visitors, both welcome and unwelcome. The natural spot for a video doorbell is wherever your regular doorbell is. Google recommends installing its Nest doorbells at a height of around 4 feet. Wedges and fixings for different wall types are included, so you can ensure your doorbell has a good view of your front step or porch.
If you decide to go with a wired doorbell (and I recommend you do for best performance), you will likely want to hire an electrician for installation. Depending on your doorbell wiring, you may need a new transformer and chime. While Google does provide excellent step-by-step and video guides to installation, hiring an electrician is always the safest option.
The latest Nest Doorbell offers a square 2K-resolution view of your front porch with a wide and tall 166-degree field of view that should give you a great view of visitors and packages. We’re testing it right now, and so far, it’s much more responsive and quicker to load the videofeed. Alerts come through swiftly, and it’ll auto-zoom in on packages or people in the alert so you can better distinguish what’s happening at your door before hopping into the app. Google also has seasonal doorbell greetings, so you can set up a spooky chime for Halloween or a cheery one for the holidays. It comes in Snow (white), Hazel (gray-green), or Linen (beige). The catch is that it must be hardwired, so you should find an electrician if you’re not confident about doing it yourself, or you can use an installation service from a retailer like Best Buy.
Don’t worry if you can’t hardwire your doorbell; you can always opt for Google’s last-generation battery-powered Nest Doorbell. The resolution (980 x 1,280) and field of view (145 degrees) are slightly more limited, but this has been
for years, and it’s a reliable way to monitor your front door. It’s also very easy to fit yourself.
Google doesn’t sell a smart lock to keep your front door secured, but there are dozens of third-party options. The company recommends this
, but as long as the smart lock supports Google Home, it should work just fine. Check out our
guide for our top options. (We'll be testing the Yale Lock With Matter soon!)
Whether you have the doorbell or a security camera, take some time to configure zones in the Google Home app. You can do this by clicking on the camera feed, tapping the triple-dot menu icon, and going to
menu, and you can drag the areas you want the camera to focus on and provide alerts. For example, I don't need the camera to send me alerts about people walking on the sidewalk, so I can configure the zone to avoid that area.
Within each zone, you can customize what you want to be alerted to. People? Animals? Vehicles? Packages? Toggle off what you want to see. There's also an option for “Motion” though this may prove more annoying that useful. You probably don't care if leaves blow onto your driveway.
in the Settings menu and opting for Max to ensure you're getting the best quality your internet provides. (Not all cameras will have this option available.) There are several other settings you can tinker with for each camera, like customizing when the floodlight turns on if you have the Nest Cam Outdoor With Floodlight.
You can use Google’s Nest cameras and doorbells without a subscription. They will reliably alert you to people, animals, packages, and vehicles, and record 10-second videoclips stored in the cloud for six hours. To get a longer event history, face recognition,
, and a host of other smart features that add a lot of value, you have to subscribe to
(previously Nest Aware). You can subscribe online or in the Google Home app. You’ve got two options:
Google Home Premium Standard ($10/month or $100/year)
: 30 days of video event history, Familiar Faces can learn to recognize friends and family, Gemini Live on
for more natural conversations, and help creating automations in Google Home by simply typing what you want (for example, “Turn on porch light when doorbell detects someone”).
Google Home Premium Advanced ($20/month or $200/year)
: 60 days of event history, 10 days of 24/7 continuous recording, descriptive alerts (such as “Simon Hill walks down the stairs” instead of “person detected”), video history search (you can ask things like “Who left the garage door open?” and jump straight to the relevant video), event descriptions (videos have more in-depth descriptions), and daily summaries (a brief recap of videos from the day).
Your Nest security cameras will send notifications to your iPhone or Android phone via the Google Home app, and if your doorbell is hardwired correctly, it should sound your chime, but I recommend snagging a few Nest smart displays and speakers. These devices can double up as chimes for your doorbell, and the displays are swift to load the live feeds for any of your Nest cameras, provided you have a reliable Wi-Fi connection.
If you open your doorbell in the Google Home app and go to Settings, you can toggle on Visitor announcements to have your speakers and displays tell you when someone is at the door. (If you have a Google Home Premium subscription with Familiar Faces, they can even tell you
is at the door, though you’ll need to take the time and add people’s names).
available in my kitchen, and it’s great for recipes or music, but also super handy for doorbell alerts and checking in on my Nest camera feeds. It’s a versatile device with a 10-inch touchscreen that also serves as a smart home hub and digital photo display.
I have the 7-inch version of Google’s Nest Hub in my office, and it ensures I never miss a visitor and can pull up the live feed for any camera right there on my desk.
Probably the best option currently available, the Nest Audio is
and a handy extra chime and doorbell announcer. I use a Nest Mini in my hallway, but you might want to hold off right now and wait for the
Google doesn't sell first-party sensors to round out its security offering, but instead relies on third-party companies to fill the gaps. You can get a
, for example, and add it to Google Home by scanning the Matter QR code in the box. It can alert you when doors and windows are opened (though I have not tested it).
The same is true for smoke and carbon monoxide detectors. Now that Google
its Nest Protect smoke detector, you’ll have to rely on third-party alternatives, like this
that officially is designed to work with the original Nest Protect and can be added to the Google Home app.
If you want a security system to integrate with Google Home, you have a few options from the likes of Vivint, Arlo, and Simplisafe, but Google
uses a lot of Google hardware, including the last-gen Google Nest Doorbell and Google Nest Cam, and you can add on other Google Nest accessories to expand your smart home setup. While it’s the same hardware, you also get ADT’s sensors and base station. But then you’ll need both the ADT+ app and Google’s app to manage all of these devices, and the system requires professional monitoring at $40 a month from ADT for at least one month.
It’s much easier to DIY the system than to use ADT’s offerings, because you’ll get better control over what you want and what you pay without needing to go through ADT at every step. Costs can also ramp up quickly—the kit says it starts at $350, but the bill our tester saw just for installation and equipment was over $3,000 (with a professional installer; you can DIY ADT’s kit).
is a senior writer for WIRED and has been testing and writing about technology for more than 15 years. You can find his previous work at Business Insider, Reviewed, TechRadar, Android Authority, USA Today, Digital Trends, and many other places. He loves all things tech, but especially
Save 20% with an LG promo code today, plus up to $1,000 off appliances, 40% off bestselling TVs and monitors, and more early Black Friday bundle offers that won’t last long.
Save up to 40% today with the latest Home Depot coupons for appliances, power tools, and more this fall.
Elon Musk's Grokipedia Pushes Far-Right Talking Points
The new AI-powered Wikipedia competitor falsely claims that pornography worsened the AIDS epidemic and that social media may be fueling a rise in transgender people.
All-Clad’s Rotating Pizza Oven Is $800 Off List Price Today
The All-Clad pizza oven was one of my biggest surprises of the summer. For some reason, it's $800 off today.
All-Clad's Factory Seconds Sale Makes Gold-Standard Cookware More Affordable
All-Clad cookware is the best you can buy—and it has a price tag to match. This sale will stretch your dollars, but it ends in a few days.
Man Has Pig Kidney Removed After Living With It for a Record 9 Months
With the demand for human donor organs desperately outstripping supply, scientists are working to see if genetically edited pig organs can bridge the gap.
Sennheiser’s Awesome Wireless Earbuds Are Almost Half Off
These high-end earbuds sound great, and have a much-needed discount.
OpenAI Says Hundreds of Thousands of ChatGPT Users May Show Signs of Manic or Psychotic Crisis Every Week
OpenAI released initial estimates about the share of users who may be experiencing symptoms like delusional thinking, mania, or suicidal ideation, and says it has tweaked GPT-5 to respond more effectively.
AI is changing what careers are possible for students interested in STEM subjects. WIRED spoke with five aspiring scientists to find out how they’re preparing for the future.
Hundreds of People With ‘Top Secret’ Clearance Exposed by House Democrats’ Website
A database containing information on people who applied for jobs with Democrats in the US House of Representatives was left accessible on the open web.
Parents Fell in Love With Alpha School’s Promise. Then They Wanted Out
In Brownsville, Texas, some families found a buzzy new school’s methods—surveillance of kids, software in lieu of teachers—to be an education in and of itself.
When the AI bubble bursts, the nerds will do their best work.
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.