Roelof Botha explains why Sequoia supports Shaun Maguire after COO quit | TechCrunch
Roelof Botha explains why Sequoia supports Shaun Maguire after COO quit
During an interview at TechCrunch Disrupt 2025 on Monday, Sequoia Capital managing partner
answered questions about his colleague, Sequoia partner Shaun Maguire, and controversial comments Maguire made earlier this year, calling Sequoia a believer in its partners’ right to “free speech.”
on X, Maguire attacked New York City mayoral candidate Zohran Mamdani, calling the politician an “Islamist” who “comes from a culture that lies about everything.” His remarks led to a
about the reputational risk to the VC firm that has backed companies like Airbnb, Google, Nvidia, and Stripe.
Shortly after the event, over a thousand founders and tech industry professionals signed an
urging Sequoia to take action and make it clear that “silence in the face of hate has consequences.” An open letter later surfaced
that Sequoia’s chief operating officer Sumaiya Balbale, a practicing Muslim, quit over the firm’s decision not to discipline Maguire following his remarks.
On stage, Botha declined to comment on the COO’s departure, saying as a matter of routine, Sequoia doesn’t comment on personnel matters and that he appreciated everything Balbale had contributed to the firm.
However, when it came to a question about whether Sequoia has previously seen its partners express their political positions as publicly as their views on business, Botha argued that Sequoia has always supported a diversity of views. Botha noted that, for example, Sequoia VC
had been outspoken in his opposition to President Trump, while former managing partner
“Internally, we celebrate diversity of opinions, and we need ‘spiky’ people inside Sequoia,” Botha, referring to Maguire, told TechCrunch editor-in-chief Connie Loizos onstage.
The response was surprisingly candid, given the high-profile nature of the remarks and the potential to dissuade some founders from working with Sequoia.
“We actually have a tremendous breadth of opinion within our partnership, and we celebrate that some people just choose to express it differently,” Botha continued.
“We have some of our partners that are very active in philanthropy or some of the private dealings, and they’re just not as vocal as Shaun might be on social media. And we’ve always honored the right to free speech of each of our individual partners,” said Botha.
Botha argued, too, that Maguire had a “specific profile” that appeals to a certain set of founders. Maguire, for instance, has deep connections with Elon Musk’s companies, managing Sequoia’s investments in Neuralink, SpaceX, The Boring Company, X, and xAI. Botha said he’s also attracting founders in one of the other currently hot industries besides AI these days: defense tech. For instance, he’s backed autonomous weapons
“He’s a physics PhD who dropped out of high school,” Botha said, noting that Maguire was “very technical.”
Botha did, however, admit that Maguire’s brand of outspokenness isn’t completely free from consequences. “So, does it come with trade-offs? Yes, it does,” he said.
Sarah has worked as a reporter for TechCrunch since August 2011. She joined the company after having previously spent over three years at ReadWriteWeb. Prior to her work as a reporter, Sarah worked in I.T. across a number of industries, including banking, retail and software.
You can contact or verify outreach from Sarah by emailing
or via encrypted message at sarahperez.01 on Signal.
Julie Bort is the Startups/Venture Desk editor for TechCrunch.
You can contact or verify outreach from Julie by emailing
Have a +1 you’d like to bring to Disrupt? Bring them along and save 60% on their pass. Or get up to 30% off on group passes.
Join 10,000 founders, investors, and tech leaders — and save when you come together to the tech epicenter of the year.
India, the market BlaBlaCar once walked away from, is now its biggest
Rivian will pay $250M to settle lawsuit over R1 price hike
20-year-old dropouts built AI notetaker Turbo AI and grew it to 5 million users
Instagram users can now use Meta AI editing tools directly in IG Stories
Two days after OpenAI’s Atlas, Microsoft relaunches a nearly identical AI browser
Amazon will buy thousands of pedal-assist cargo vehicles from Rivian spinoff Also
Rivian spinoff Also reveals a high-end modular e-bike for $4,500