Rivian is settling $250 million lawsuit to focus on next year’s R2 EV - Ars Technica
Rivian is settling $250 million lawsuit to focus on next year’s R2 EV
Investors sued Rivian claiming it knew prices had to rise after its IPO.
Rivian pick-up trucks on the assembly line in Normal, Illinois.
Rivian pick-up trucks on the assembly line in Normal, Illinois.
Electric vehicle startup Rivian announced on Thursday that it has settled a lawsuit with some of its investors. The company continues to deny allegations of making “materially untrue” statements during its inial public offering but says it agreed to pay $250 million to clear itself of distractions as it focuses on building its next EV, the
over claims that the startup knew it would cost far more for it to build each R1T electric truck and R1S electric SUV than the advertised $67,500 and $70,000 prices, respectively. A big surprise price increase would tarnish the nascent automaker’s reputation, the lawsuit claimed, and could lead to many of the almost 56,000 pre-orders being canceled.
Just a few months after its November 2021 IPO, the company had indeed
: $79,500 for the R1T and $84,500 for the R1S SUV. After an outcry, the company said it would honor the original price for its existing preorders. By that point, though, the damage was done, and more than a third of the company’s value was erased within a few days, the lawsuit alleged.
Rivian blamed “inflationary pressure” for the price increases. But the company’s former sales and marketing VP,
after finding what she called a “toxic bro culture,” claimed in a lawsuit of her own that to Rivian management, “it was clear that the vehicles were underpriced, and each sale would result in a loss for the company” and that “they would need to raise the vehicle prices after the IPO.”
Rivian continues to deny that it made untrue statements in its IPO about the R1S and R1T pricing and said in a statement that while it is settling the case for $250 million, that “is not an admission of fault or wrongdoing. However, settling will enable Rivian to focus its resources on the launch of its mass market R2 vehicle in the first half of 2026.”
Jonathan is the Automotive Editor at Ars Technica. He has a BSc and PhD in Pharmacology. In 2014 he decided to indulge his lifelong passion for the car by leaving the National Human Genome Research Institute and launching Ars Technica's automotive coverage. He lives in Washington, DC.
10M people watched a YouTuber shim a lock; the lock company sued him. Bad idea.
New image-generating AIs are being used for fake expense reports
AT&T ad congratulating itself for its ethics violated an ad-industry rule
A single point of failure triggered the Amazon outage affecting millions
Tesla’s “Mad Max” mode is now under federal scrutiny
the noise for over 25 years. With our unique combination of
technical savvy and wide-ranging interest in the technological arts
and sciences, Ars is the trusted source in a sea of information. After
all, you don’t need to know everything, only what’s important.
© 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or
registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our
reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except