China Dives in on the World’s First Wind-Powered Undersea Data Center | WIRED
China Dives in on the World’s First Wind-Powered Undersea Data Center
The $226 million project uses ocean breezes and seawater to stay cool.
China is submerging data centers into the ocean to keep them cool.
the first phase of construction of what it claims is the world's first underwater data center (UDC). Located in Shanghai’s Lin-gang Special Area with a price tag of roughly RMB 1.6 billion ($226 million), it's a significant milestone in the quest for sustainable solutions to the growing energy demands of China’s computing infrastructure.
Powered entirely by wind energy, the initiative has a total power capacity of 24 megawatts. According to the Lin-gang management committee, its completion represents a key breakthrough in incorporating renewable energy into data storage, processing, and distribution.
Traditional land-based data centers run hot and must be kept cool to operate efficiently. Air conditioning systems alone can account for up to 50 percent of total
Lin-gang's UDC solves this problem by submerging servers beneath the surface of the ocean where seawater acts as a natural cooling system, according to Su Yang, general manager of Shanghai Hicloud Technology, one of the contractors on the project. This reduces the energy demand for cooling to less than 10 percent.
The underwater data center uses seawater as a natural cooling system. Illustration: Shanghai Hailanyun Technology
The industry-standard metric for measuring the energy efficiency of a data center is PUE (power usage effectiveness). The UDC’s first phase is designed to achieve a PUE of no more than 1.15, a remarkable goal considering theoretical perfection is 1.0. Meanwhile, China’s national policy requires new data centers to achieve a PUE of less than 1.25 by the end of 2025.
The project is environmentally sustainable in other ways. More than 95 percent of its electricity comes from offshore wind turbines. Overall, the designers estimate that this reduces energy consumption by 22.8 percent. Huang Dinan, president of Shenergy Group, another of the project’s contractors, noted that the East China Sea offers unique offshore wind resources with more than 3,000 hours of annual utilization. Land usage is reduced by more than 90 percent, a major factor in densely populated coastal cities like Shanghai, and the need for fresh water is eliminated entirely.
The UDC is not an isolated effort. As part of a broader national strategy in
, Shanghai aims to become a global center of scientific and technological innovation by growing its cloud computing industry to more than RMB 200 billion (approximately $28.25 billion) by 2027.
This initiative also complements—and perhaps offers an alternative to—the “East Data, West Computing” megaproject, which launched in 2022. That project seeks to build data centers in China’s less developed, western regions to process data generated by coastal economic centers to the east. Lin-gang's UDC, on the other hand, processes data close to where it is generated, while using marine resources to mitigate negative environmental impacts.
The UDC’s 24-megawatts capacity is just the beginning. During the announcement for the project, the main contractors, including Shanghai Hicloud Technology, Shenergy Group, the Shanghai branch of China Telecom and INESA, signed a new agreement to launch another offshore wind-powered UDC project with a much more ambitious goal: 500 megawatts.
However, the transition from proof-of-concept projects to large-scale application presents significant challenges. “UDC construction is still in its early stage,” cautioned Wang Shifeng, president of Third Harbor Engineering, another company involved in the current project. Wang stressed that for broader deployment, operation and maintenance optimization, as well as technological reliability, must be achieved first.
is an editor at WIRED en Español. She is based in Mexico City. ...
Save 20% with an LG promo code today, plus up to $1,000 off appliances, 40% off bestselling TVs and monitors, and more early Black Friday bundle offers that won’t last long.
Save up to 40% today with the latest Home Depot coupons for appliances, power tools, and more this fall.
Elon Musk's Grokipedia Pushes Far-Right Talking Points
The new AI-powered Wikipedia competitor falsely claims that pornography worsened the AIDS epidemic and that social media may be fueling a rise in transgender people.
All-Clad’s Rotating Pizza Oven Is $800 Off List Price Today
The All-Clad pizza oven was one of my biggest surprises of the summer. For some reason, it's $800 off today.
All-Clad's Factory Seconds Sale Makes Gold-Standard Cookware More Affordable
All-Clad cookware is the best you can buy—and it has a price tag to match. This sale will stretch your dollars, but it ends in a few days.
Man Has Pig Kidney Removed After Living With It for a Record 9 Months
With the demand for human donor organs desperately outstripping supply, scientists are working to see if genetically edited pig organs can bridge the gap.
Sennheiser’s Awesome Wireless Earbuds Are Almost Half Off
These high-end earbuds sound great, and have a much-needed discount.
OpenAI Says Hundreds of Thousands of ChatGPT Users May Show Signs of Manic or Psychotic Crisis Every Week
OpenAI released initial estimates about the share of users who may be experiencing symptoms like delusional thinking, mania, or suicidal ideation, and says it has tweaked GPT-5 to respond more effectively.
AI is changing what careers are possible for students interested in STEM subjects. WIRED spoke with five aspiring scientists to find out how they’re preparing for the future.
Hundreds of People With ‘Top Secret’ Clearance Exposed by House Democrats’ Website
A database containing information on people who applied for jobs with Democrats in the US House of Representatives was left accessible on the open web.
Once in a while, LLMs turn evil—and no one quite knows why.
When the AI bubble bursts, the nerds will do their best work.
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.