Adobe's new Photoshop AI Assistant can automate repetitive tasks
Adobe's new Photoshop AI Assistant can automate repetitive tasks
It's also introducing new AI tools for Illustrator, Premiere Pro and Lightroom.
Among the usual slew of AI enhancements to its Creative Cloud apps, Adobe has introduced a new Photoshop AI Assistant to help automate repetitive chores and provide personalized recommendations. At
, the company also introduced new tools for Photoshop, Premiere and Lightroom, while launching a new
and bringing in new third party models from Topaz and others.
A key new feature in Photoshop and Express (Adobe's all-in-one design, photo, and video tool) is the AI Assistant that lets you can chat with in a conversational manner to gain "more control, power and potential time-savings," according to Adobe. With that, you can tell it to take on a series of creative tasks like color correction on resizing. You can easily switch between prompts with the agent and manual tools like sliders to adjust brightness and contrast. It can also provide personalized recommendations and offer tutorials on how to accomplish complex tasks.
In a brief demo, Adobe showed that when you switch to Photoshop's "agentic" mode in those apps, it minimizes the usual complex interface and leaves you with a simple prompt-based UI. You can then type in the task you want to accomplish, and the agent will perform those steps automatically. You can then jump back into the full interface to fine tune the result by changing things like brightness or levels.
Along with the AI Assistant, Adobe introduced a few other AI tools for Photoshop. Chief among those are new partner models for generative fill that lets you easily remove unwanted objects and fill in the hole left behind. Those include Google Gemini 2.5 f!ash, Black Forest Labs FLUX.1 Kontext and Adobe's latest Firefly Image Models. It also introduced Firefly Image Model 5, Adobe's most advanced image generation model yet.
Photoshop also gains new Generative Upscale option that uses Topaz Lab's AI to upscale small, cropped and other low-resolution images into 4K with "realistic detail," Adobe says. Another feature, Harmonize, lets you place objects or people into different environments in a realistic manner, eliminating much of work necessary for such compositing. Harmonize also matches the light, color and tone of foreground objects and people to the background.
Premiere, meanwhile, introduced a similar feature called AI Object Mask that performs automatic identification and isolation of people and objects in video, so they can be edited and tracked without any manual rotoscoping. The app also gains new rectangle, ellipse and pen masking in Premiere to make targeted adjustments, along with a fast vector mask for quicker tracking.
Finally, LIghtroom is getting a new feature called Assisted Culling. It lets you quickly and easily identify the best images in a large photo collection, with the ability to filter for things like focus level, angles and degrees of sharpness.
Photoshop’s Generative Fill with Partner Models, Generative Upscale and Harmonize are now available to customers today. Premiere’s AI Object Mask, Rectangle, Ellipse and Pen Masking and Fast Vector Mask, along with Lightroom's AI Assisted Culling, launch today in beta. Adobe's Photoshop AI Assistant, meanwhile, will be available through a private beta waitlist.
If you buy something through a link in this article, we may earn commission.