The All-Clad Pizza Oven Is $800 Off Right Now | WIRED
The All-Clad Pizza Oven Is Ridiculously Cheap Right Now
The All-Clad pizza oven was one of my biggest surprises of the summer. For some reason, it’s $800 off today.
All products featured on WIRED are independently selected by our editors. However, we may receive compensation from retailers and/or from purchases of products through these links.
surprised me this year. This summer, it breezed into the backyard pizza world with a debut pizza oven that I like as well as any oven I've tested this year. Right now, that excellent All-Clad gas-powered pizza oven is a whopping $800 off the suggested retail price, only at
heats up fast and crests 900 degrees Fahrenheit after 20 minutes. It's insulated well, comes with a built-in thermometer that's pretty accurate, and is made with the sturdy stainless steel All-Clad is known for.
But especially, All-Clad's pizza oven comes with a rotating pizza stone that removes a lot of the fuss and bother of cooking pizza evenly. Instead of having to hover nervously nearby with a pizza peel, turning each pizza before the backside burns, all I have to do is launch the pizza in the middle of the pizza stone.
The oven does the rest, spinning the pizza at a rate of one revolution every 40 seconds or so. It's not foolproof—you have to set the pizza in the center of the pizza stone to get an even cook—but it is a game-changer. This is true especially if I'm making multiple pizzas in a go-round. It means I'm able to prep another pie while one is still spinning and baking.
The main downside to the All-Clad oven was the price: When it came out, it was listed at $1,300 retail, more than double the price of our
from Ooni. It's been on sale fairly often since, but I've never seen it this low.
The All-Clad pizza oven is on sale for just $500 today—less than half the suggested retail price and hundreds of dollars lower than I've ever seen it. When you take into account the rotating pizza stone and built-in temperature gauge, that's a radically low price.
It's unclear how long the All-Clad deal will last. All-Clad's reps have not responded to queries about the duration of this sale. But when it's gone, I don't expect this price to return soon.
This pizza oven discount coincides with a big week for All-Clad, as patrons flood its parent company's site for a
—with steep discounts on minutely scratched or tarnished All-Clad cookware.
But as for me, I'd probably just be bird-dogging this pizza oven. Because $500 for this All-Clad oven is an almost inexplicably good deal.
is a staff writer and reviewer on WIRED's Gear team, where he focuses on home and kitchen devices that range from
. Before joining WIRED in 2024, he covered food, drink, business, culture, and technology for ...
Save 20% with an LG promo code today, plus up to $1,000 off appliances, 40% off bestselling TVs and monitors, and more early Black Friday bundle offers that won’t last long.
Save up to 40% today with the latest Home Depot coupons for appliances, power tools, and more this fall.
Elon Musk's Grokipedia Pushes Far-Right Talking Points
The new AI-powered Wikipedia competitor falsely claims that pornography worsened the AIDS epidemic and that social media may be fueling a rise in transgender people.
All-Clad’s Rotating Pizza Oven Is $800 Off List Price Today
The All-Clad pizza oven was one of my biggest surprises of the summer. For some reason, it's $800 off today.
All-Clad's Factory Seconds Sale Makes Gold-Standard Cookware More Affordable
All-Clad cookware is the best you can buy—and it has a price tag to match. This sale will stretch your dollars, but it ends in a few days.
Man Has Pig Kidney Removed After Living With It for a Record 9 Months
With the demand for human donor organs desperately outstripping supply, scientists are working to see if genetically edited pig organs can bridge the gap.
Sennheiser’s Awesome Wireless Earbuds Are Almost Half Off
These high-end earbuds sound great, and have a much-needed discount.
OpenAI Says Hundreds of Thousands of ChatGPT Users May Show Signs of Manic or Psychotic Crisis Every Week
OpenAI released initial estimates about the share of users who may be experiencing symptoms like delusional thinking, mania, or suicidal ideation, and says it has tweaked GPT-5 to respond more effectively.
AI is changing what careers are possible for students interested in STEM subjects. WIRED spoke with five aspiring scientists to find out how they’re preparing for the future.
Hundreds of People With ‘Top Secret’ Clearance Exposed by House Democrats’ Website
A database containing information on people who applied for jobs with Democrats in the US House of Representatives was left accessible on the open web.
Parents Fell in Love With Alpha School’s Promise. Then They Wanted Out
In Brownsville, Texas, some families found a buzzy new school’s methods—surveillance of kids, software in lieu of teachers—to be an education in and of itself.
When the AI bubble bursts, the nerds will do their best work.
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.