Adobe MAX 2025: All the Top Announcements for Adobe’s Creative Suite | WIRED
Adobe Now Lets You Generate Soundtracks and Speech in Firefly
At Adobe’s annual MAX conference, the company also teased a ChatGPT integration and a new AI assistant in Photoshop.
All products featured on WIRED are independently selected by our editors. However, we may receive compensation from retailers and/or from purchases of products through these links.
heavily into artificial intelligence. At the company's annual MAX conference in Los Angeles, it announced a slew of new features for its creative apps, almost all of which include some kind of new AI capability. It even teased an integration with OpenAI's ChatGPT.
through generative AI. So it makes sense that the bulk of the announcements revolve around it. First, the company says it's opening up support for custom models, allowing creatives to train their own AI models to create specific characters and tones.
Businesses have been able to leverage custom models in Firefly for some time, but Adobe is rolling out the feature to individual customers. Adobe says you need just six to 12 images to train the model on a character, and “slightly more” to train it on a tone. The basis of the model remains Adobe’s own Firefly model, which means
and commercially safe to use. Custom models will roll out at the end of the year,
Adobe hasn’t shared a specific date yet, but Firefly Image Model 5 will launch “in the months to come” following Adobe MAX. Firefly Image Model 4 launched in April 2025, so it will likely be 2026 before we see a broad release of Image Model 5. Like Image Model 4, the updated model has a native 4-megapixel resolution, meaning it can generate images at 2K (2560 x 1440). It also supports prompt-based editing, which sees edits generated at 2 MP or Full HD (1920 x 1080). The big improvement for Image Model 5, however, is layered image editing.
In a demo, Adobe showed me how the new Firefly model works. You can upload an image, and Firefly Image Model 5 will identify different elements, allowing you to move, resize, and replace those elements with generative features. In my demo, Adobe used a bowl of ramen, showing how Image Model 5 was able to cut out and move the chopsticks to a different area of the scene, as well as add a bowl of chili flakes generated by AI. And all of this was done without any visual artifacts.
Firefly is also getting two new generative AI features: Generate Soundtrack and Generate Speech. Both do exactly as their names suggest, with some specific guardrails in place.
Generate Soundtrack will scan an uploaded video and suggest a prompt for a soundtrack. Rather than deleting the prompt and starting from scratch, Adobe lets you choose a vibe, style, and purpose to find something that works. For instance, you could say you want a tense orchestral score to lay over the top of a chase scene.
Generate Speech is the first time Adobe has added text-to-speech capabilities to Firefly, leveraging its own Firefly models, as well as models from
. At launch, Adobe says it’ll support 15 languages with Generate Speech, and you’ll be able to add emotion tags. These tags aren’t universal, so you can add different tags to different parts of a line to change the inflection. Generate Soundtrack and Generate Speech are rolling out shortly to Firefly.
There's a new Firefly video editor, too. For the first time, you can access a full, multi-track video editor in your browser with built-in Firefly. Adobe says it’s built to combine multiple sources, bringing together generated and captured content across video, audio, and images. There
for the Firefly video editor, but Adobe hasn’t announced when it will release broadly.
—an AI assistant that completes specific tasks for you. Adobe already has such an
, but it’s bringing that same capability to Photoshop and Express. Adobe says the assistant will strike a balance between “tactile and agentic,” serving as somewhat of an educational tool to navigate Adobe’s apps.
Within Photoshop or Express, you can pull up the assistant to accomplish different tasks. It can point you toward the right tool depending on what you’re doing, while still giving you control over the final output. The AI assistant in
As usual, Adobe took some time at MAX to preview what’s coming down the road beyond these immediate updates. The two main announcements? Project Moonlight and a ChatGPT integration.
Adobe says it’s looking into integrating Adobe features directly into ChatGPT, using the same window to generate images, video, and more using Adobe’s models. It's in the very early stages right now, but Adobe says it’s working with OpenAI (via Microsoft), and the goal is to add its creative features into ChatGPT.
Project Moonlight, however, is a system designed to carry the context of the AI models you interact with across Adobe’s creative applications. Adobe says you’ll be able to connect your social accounts to give the AI model context, generating content that fits with your own style and tone. You'll also be able to carry context from other Adobe applications.
A private beta for Project Moonlight is launching at Adobe MAX for attendees, and a larger public beta is expected soon. Adobe hasn’t announced an official release date.
is a product writer and reviewer at WIRED, focused on software as a service (SaaS) products, including VPNs, password managers, cloud storage, and antivirus applications. Previously he worked as lead reporter at Digital Trends, and his work has been cited in Fox News, Business Insider, and Futurism, among ...
This Is the Nuclear-Powered Ship Deployed in Trump’s War on Drug Boats
is a $13 billion aircraft carrier sailing to the Caribbean with nuclear propulsion, an electromagnetic plane launcher, and 90 aircraft onboard.
Save 20% with an LG promo code today, plus up to $1,000 off appliances, 40% off bestselling TVs and monitors, and more early Black Friday bundle offers that won’t last long.
Save up to 40% today with the latest Home Depot coupons for appliances, power tools, and more this fall.
Elon Musk's Grokipedia Pushes Far-Right Talking Points
The new AI-powered Wikipedia competitor falsely claims that pornography worsened the AIDS epidemic and that social media may be fueling a rise in transgender people.
All-Clad’s Rotating Pizza Oven Is $800 Off List Price Today
The All-Clad pizza oven was one of my biggest surprises of the summer. For some reason, it's $800 off today.
All-Clad's Factory Seconds Sale Makes Gold-Standard Cookware More Affordable
All-Clad cookware is the best you can buy—and it has a price tag to match. This sale will stretch your dollars, but it ends in a few days.
Man Has Pig Kidney Removed After Living With It for a Record 9 Months
With the demand for human donor organs desperately outstripping supply, scientists are working to see if genetically edited pig organs can bridge the gap.
Sennheiser’s Awesome Wireless Earbuds Are Almost Half Off
These high-end earbuds sound great, and have a much-needed discount.
OpenAI Says Hundreds of Thousands of ChatGPT Users May Show Signs of Manic or Psychotic Crisis Every Week
OpenAI released initial estimates about the share of users who may be experiencing symptoms like delusional thinking, mania, or suicidal ideation, and says it has tweaked GPT-5 to respond more effectively.
AI is changing what careers are possible for students interested in STEM subjects. WIRED spoke with five aspiring scientists to find out how they’re preparing for the future.
Hundreds of People With ‘Top Secret’ Clearance Exposed by House Democrats’ Website
A database containing information on people who applied for jobs with Democrats in the US House of Representatives was left accessible on the open web.
Some of the world’s most interesting thinkers about thinking think they might’ve cracked machine sentience. And I think they might be onto something.
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.