Man Has Pig Kidney Removed After Living With It for a Record 9 Months | WIRED
Man Has Pig Kidney Removed After Living With It for a Record 9 Months
With the demand for human donor organs desperately outstripping supply, scientists are working to see if genetically edited pig organs can bridge the gap.
Leonardo Riella, medical director for kidney transplantation at Massachusetts General Hospital, checks on Tim Andrews after his pig kidney transplant.
General Hospital have removed a genetically engineered pig kidney from a 67-year-old New Hampshire man after a period of decreasing kidney function, the hospital confirmed to WIRED in a statement. The organ functioned for nearly nine months, longer than previous pig organ transplants, before it was removed on October 23.
after being on dialysis for more than two years due to end-stage kidney disease. His rare blood type meant that he faced a much longer wait time for a human donor kidney than most patients, who already wait on average three to five years for a kidney.
The shortage of human donors has pushed scientists to
in the US alone. Due to the shortage of organs, the US performed just 28,000 kidney transplants in 2024.
Pig organs are being explored as an option, though genetic differences between pigs and humans mean they would be swiftly rejected if they were transplanted into a person. Scientists have therefore turned to gene editing to make pig organs more compatible with the human body, and have so far carried out a handful of experimental transplants.
Andrews was the fourth person in the world to receive a kidney from a genetically engineered donor pig. The first, Richard Slayman, whose surgery was also performed at Massachusetts General,
died in May 2024 almost two months after his transplant
. A second person, Lisa Pisano, had a combined pig kidney transplant and heart pump surgery at NYU Langone Health, but
in May 2024 after less than two months due to failure. Pisano later passed away. Towana Looney became the third pig kidney recipient, again at NYU Langone, and lived with the organ for more than four months before surgeons removed it in April this year due to organ rejection.
Since Andrews’ surgery, a patient in China has received an edited pig kidney, and surgeons at Massachusetts General have transplanted one into another patient, 54-year-old Bill Stewart, bringing the total number of people known to have received pig kidneys to six.
Before the pig kidney transplants, two patients received genetically engineered pig hearts at the University of Maryland in 2022 and 2023 but never became healthy enough to leave the hospital. They both died within two months of their procedures.
Andrews was discharged on February 1, and his pig kidney functioned as expected for several months. In July, Leonardo Riella, medical director for kidney transplantation at Mass General, told WIRED that Andrews’ kidney was doing well after showing signs of cellular rejection two weeks following the transplant. Riella and his team were able to successfully treat that rejection to keep his kidney functioning.
Riella said Andrews was on four immunosuppressant medicines to prevent further rejection, which can happen at any point after a transplant. “Off and on, we have had to adjust his medications. It’s definitely more intense than a regular human transplant,” Riella told WIRED at the time.
Andrews’ kidney was provided by biotech company eGenesis in Cambridge, Massachusetts, from a pig donor that was genetically edited using
technology to remove harmful pig genes and add certain human genes. In all, the eGenesis pigs have 69 edits.
For Pisano’s procedure, the NYU team used a donor pig from Revivicor, a subsidiary of Maryland-based United Therapeutics, with a single genetic edit. The donor pig used for Looney’s procedure was also from Revivicor but had 10 gene edits. The number of edits needed to keep pig organs functioning in the human body is something that scientists are actively debating.
Andrews will now resume dialysis and remain on the list for a human donor kidney, according to Mass General.
Though the kidney ultimately failed, eGenesis considers the transplant a success. “The life-supporting function provided by the donor organ highlights the possibilities for patients around the world who are desperately waiting for a transplant,” the company said in a statement provided to WIRED. “Cross-species transplantation has been a goal for centuries that has only recently become possible due to decades of research and the convergence of enabling technologies.”
The hospital plans to carry out another genetically edited pig kidney transplant before the end of the year.
is a staff writer at WIRED, covering biotechnology. Previously, she was an MIT Knight Science Journalism project fellow and a staff writer covering biotechnology at Medium's OneZero. Before that, she served as an associate editor at MIT Technology Review, where she wrote about biomedicine. Her stories have also ...
Scientists Made Human Eggs From Skin Cells and Used Them to Form Embryos
The embryos weren’t used to try to establish a pregnancy, but the researchers behind the technique say it could one day be used to address infertility.
Resistant Bacteria Are Advancing Faster Than Antibiotics
One in six laboratory-confirmed bacteria in 2023 proved resistant to antibiotic treatment, according to the World Health Organization—all related to a variety of common diseases globally.
Another round of terminations, combined with previous layoffs and departures, has reduced the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention workforce by about 3,000 people since January.
Autism Is Not a Single Condition and Has No Single Cause, Scientists Conclude
Research reveals that those diagnosed with autism early show distinct genetic and developmental profiles from those diagnosed later.
Chaos, Confusion, and Conspiracies: Inside a Facebook Group for RFK Jr.’s Autism ‘Cure’
A Facebook group set up to share information about leucovorin has been spammed by affiliate links and supplement companies trying to shame parents of autistic kids.
This Startup Wants to Put Its Brain-Computer Interface in the Apple Vision Pro
California-based Cognixion is launching a clinical trial to allow paralyzed patients with speech disorders the ability to communicate without an invasive brain implant.
Scientist Who Was Offline 'Living His Best Life' Stunned by Nobel Prize Win
Fred Ramsdell was on vacation in the Wyoming wilderness when he and two colleagues received the honor for their breakthroughs in immunology.
Microplastics Could Be Weakening Your Bones, Research Suggests
The review of more than 60 scientific articles showed that microplastics, among other effects, can stimulate the formation of osteoclasts, cells specialized in degrading bone tissue.
The CDC no longer broadly recommends the Covid-19 vaccine, but US residents will still be able to get one if they want.
ICE Wants to Build Out a 24/7 Social Media Surveillance Team
Documents show that ICE plans to hire dozens of contractors to scan X, Facebook, TikTok, and other platforms to target people for deportation.
Mira Murati’s Stealth AI Lab Launches Its First Product
Thinking Machines Lab, led by a group of prominent former OpenAI researchers, is betting that fine-tuning cutting-edge models will be the next frontier in AI.
China Rolls Out Its First Talent Visa as the US Retreats on H-1Bs
The Chinese government unveiled a program to woo foreign talent just as the US cracked down on H-1Bs with a $100,000 fee. The move immediately provoked xenophobic backlash.
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.