Cinemark is adding more 70mm IMAX screens ahead of Christopher Nolan’s The Odyssey
Cinemark is adding more 70mm IMAX screens ahead of Christopher Nolan’s The Odyssey
The format is growing in popularity, and theater chains are trying to accommodate moviegoers.
The movie industry has been in a tailspin for years, with many people foregoing the theatrical experience in favor of watching films at home. I get it. Going to the movies can be expensive and, let’s face it, dealing with other people can be annoying (it’s been 10 years and I’m still mad about those teenagers who would not stop giggling all the way through my first viewing of
). But there’s nothing quite like going to a theater and getting lost in a great film for a couple of hours. In addition, large-scale formats are growing in popularity and theater chains are trying to accommodate moviegoers.
Cinemark is installing more IMAX screens, including ones that support 70mm film projection. The company is adding such screens to its locations in Woodridge, Illinois (a suburb of Chicago); Colorado Springs, Colorado; and Rochester, New York. It’s also adding four IMAX with Laser systems — a 4K laser offering — to other locations in the US in the coming months. It’s upgrading its other 12 IMAX screens across the Americas with that tech too.
, Cinemark plans to have the new IMAX 70mm film screens set up by July 17, 2026. That’s the release date for Christopher Nolan’s next film,
which is the first theatrical release to be shot entirely in IMAX. As it stands, only 30 movie theaters on the planet can screen films in IMAX 70mm, which is
IMAX is proving popular with cinemagoers who are looking for a large-format experience that would be impossible at home (at least not without an obscene private screen). Indeed, many IMAX 70mm screenings of
IMAX 70mm isn’t the only format with limited availability that’s drawing audiences to theaters. Paul Thomas Anderson’s
is the first movie in 60 years to be projected in the VistaVision format, but only at a few locations. The film is currently being screened in IMAX 70mm in some cinemas too.