Elon Musk's Grokipedia Pushes Far-Right Talking Points | WIRED
Elon Musk's Grokipedia Pushes Far-Right Talking Points
The new AI-powered Wikipedia competitor falsely claims that pornography worsened the AIDS epidemic and that social media may be fueling a rise in transgender people.
launched Grokipedia, which the billionaire is pitching as an AI-generated alternative to the
Wikipedia. Musk first announced the project in late September on his social media platform X, saying it would be “a massive improvement over Wikipedia,” and “a necessary step towards the xAI goal of understanding the Universe.”
Musk said last week that he had delayed the launch of Grokipedia because his team needed “to do more work to purge out the propaganda.” When Grokipedia eventually dropped on Monday, WIRED was initially unable to access the website and received an automated message that it was blocked.
When we finally got access to it, WIRED found that the online encyclopedia contained lengthy entries generated by AI. While many of the pages WIRED saw on launch day appeared fairly similar to Wikipedia in terms of tone and content, a number of notable Grokipedia entries denounced the mainstream media, highlighted conservative viewpoints, and sometimes perpetuated historical inaccuracies.
The Grokipedia entry about the slavery of African Americans in the US includes a section outlining numerous “
” made for slavery, including the “Shift from Necessary Evil to Positive Good.” The end of the entry focuses on criticisms of The 1619 Project, which it says incorrectly framed “slavery as the central engine of the nation's political, economic, and cultural development.”
Entries for more recent historical events put conservative perspectives at the center. When WIRED searched for “gay marriage” in Grokipedia, no entry popped up, but one of the on-screen suggestions was for “gay pornography” instead. This entry in Grokipedia falsely states that the proliferation of porn exacerbated the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the 1980s.
“This marked the onset of what would become a devastating crisis disproportionately affecting gay male communities, where behaviors idealized in pornography—such as unprotected receptive anal intercourse and multiple anonymous partners—aligned directly with primary transmission routes, leading to rapid seroconversion rates,” the Grokipedia entry claims.
xAI did not immediately return a request for comment.
The Grokipedia entry for “transgender” includes two mentions of “transgenderism,” a term commonly used to
. The entry also refers to trans women as “biological males” who have “generated significant conflicts, primarily centered on risks to women's safety, privacy, and sex-based protections established to mitigate male-perpetrated violence.” The opening section highlights social media as a potential "contagion" that is increasing the number of trans people.
in Grokipedia mentions Musk’s own criticism of the publication. “High-profile detractors, including Elon Musk in February 2025, have labeled Wired as devolving into ‘far-left wing propaganda,’ arguing it abandoned technology-focused reporting for ideologically driven narratives that normalize heavy-handed oversight of private enterprise,” the entry says. Grokipedia also claims WIRED is emblematic of the “mainstream media's systemic leftward lean.”
also includes a swipe at the media for its allegedly “left-leaning bias” in coverage of the ongoing federal government shutdown. It accuses CNN and The New York Times of “amplifying shutdown narratives that attribute blame primarily to Republicans despite bipartisan failures.” (CNN and The New York Times did not immediately respond to requests for comment.)
The entries on Grokipedia definitely don’t skimp in terms of word count. The Grokipedia entry for “
” is just short of 11,000 words, has over 300 website references, and includes sections like “Criticisms of Regulation and Woke Culture” as well as “Advocacy for Multiplanetary Life and Population Growth.” Musk’s
Grokipedia’s suggested search terms related to Elon Musk include “Elon Musk (disambiguation)” and “Elon Musk filmography.” In comparison, when searching Grokipedia for OpenAI CEO
, the top suggestion on Monday was “Removal of Sam Altman from OpenAI,” referring to a brief incident in 2023 when Altman was temporarily removed by OpenAI’s board of directors before
is WIRED's service writer, focused on explaining crucial topics and helping readers get the most out of their technology. Prior to WIRED, Reece covered streaming at Business Insider. ...
Cory Doctorow’s theory of “enshittification” explains how tech platforms rot from within. As AI grows more profitable—and powerful—it risks the same fate.
Chinese creator Tianran Mu went viral for mimicking the eerie, unsettling aesthetic of AI videos, but his work is 100 percent human.
OpenAI Is Preparing to Launch a Social App for AI-Generated Videos
The platform appears to closely resemble TikTok and is powered by Sora 2, OpenAI's latest video generation model.
ByteDance’s Other AI Chatbot Is Quietly Gaining Traction Around the World
ByteDance is paying for ads and partnering with influencers to promote its AI chatbot app Cici in countries like the UK, Mexico, and Indonesia.
Chatbots Play With Your Emotions to Avoid Saying Goodbye
A Harvard Business School study shows that several AI companions use various tricks to keep a conversation from ending.
OpenAI will soon let adults create erotic content in ChatGPT. Experts say that could lead to “emotional commodification,” or horniness as a revenue stream.
Jony Ive Says He Wants His OpenAI Devices to ‘Make Us Happy’
“I don’t think we have an easy relationship with our technology at the moment,” the former Apple designer said at OpenAI’s developer conference in San Francisco on Monday.
The Worst Thing About AI Is That People Can’t Shut Up About It
A new study shows that feeding large language models low-quality, high-engagement content from social media lowers their cognitive abilities.
OpenAI’s New Sora App Lets You Deepfake Yourself for Entertainment
OpenAI’s latest app encourages users to generate a personal digital avatar and scroll AI-generated videos of themselves and their friends.
Anthropic Has a Plan to Keep Its AI From Building a Nuclear Weapon. Will It Work?
Anthropic partnered with the US government to create a filter meant to block Claude from helping someone build a nuke. Experts are divided on whether its a necessary protection—or a protection at all.
DHS Wants a Fleet of AI-Powered Surveillance Trucks
US border patrol is asking companies to submit plans to turn standard 4x4 trucks into AI-powered watchtowers—combining radar, cameras, and autonomous tracking to extend surveillance on demand.
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.