OpenAI completes its for-profit recapitalization | TechCrunch
Kim Jae-Hwan/SOPA Images/LightRocket / Getty Images
OpenAI on Tuesday said it had completed its recapitalization, splitting the AI lab into a for-profit corporation nested inside a non-profit foundation. It’s the end result of a complex legal process that had been strenuously resisted by its estranged co-founder, Elon Musk.
Under the new structure, the non-profit OpenAI Foundation will have legal control over a public benefit corporation called OpenAI Group, which is free to raise funding or acquire companies without legal restraint. The Foundation will hold a significant stake in OpenAI Group, and will appoint its board of directors.
“We believe that the world’s most powerful technology must be developed in a way that reflects the world’s collective interests,” OpenAI chairman Brett Taylor wrote in a
. “The close of our recapitalization gives us the ability to keep pushing the frontier of AI, and an updated corporate structure to ensure progress serves everyone.”
, the OpenAI Foundation will own 26% of the for-profit, with a warrant for additional shares to be granted if the company continues to grow. Microsoft, an early investor in OpenAI, will hold a roughly 27% stake, valued at about $135 billion, with the remaining 47% held by investors and employees.
, the deal will also extend Microsoft’s IP rights to OpenAI models through 2032. If OpenAI ever declares that it has achieved its long-held goal of artificial general intelligence, the deal will also require it to submit to an independent expert panel for verification.
Prior to this recapitalization, OpenAI was operating as a non-profit under strict equity restrictions — a position that became increasingly untenable as the company’s fundraising became more ambitious. In April, Softbank announced
an unprecedented $30 billion investment into OpenAI
, contingent on the company’s successful conversion into a for-profit. On Saturday,
that the final installment of the funding had been sent, signaling a possible breakthrough in the restructuring.
There have been a number of legal efforts to block or otherwise influence the restructuring, most notably from Elon Musk, who at one point
. State attorneys general from California and Delaware also made inquiries into the process, and Taylor cited them specifically as a positive influence on the discussions.
Google Cloud, Netflix, Microsoft, Box, Phia, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. And don’t miss 300+ showcasing startups in all sectors.
Bring a +1 and save 60% on their pass, or get your pass by Oct 27 to save up to $444.
Google Cloud, Netflix, Microsoft, Box, Phia, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. And don’t miss 300+ showcasing startups in all sectors. Bring a +1 and save 60% on their pass, or get your pass by Oct 27 to save up to $444.
“We made several changes as a result of those discussions and we believe OpenAI—and as a result, the public we serve—are better for them,” Taylor wrote.
with chief scientist Jakub Pachocki to answer questions from the public. The event will begin at 10:30 a.m. Pacific Time.
Russell Brandom has been covering the tech industry since 2012, with a focus on platform policy and emerging technologies. He previously worked at The Verge and Rest of World, and has written for Wired, The Awl and MIT’s Technology Review.
He can be reached at russell.brandom@techcrunch.com or on Signal at 412-401-5489.
Have a +1 you’d like to bring to Disrupt? Bring them along and save 60% on their pass. Or get up to 30% off on group passes.
Join 10,000 founders, investors, and tech leaders — and save when you come together to the tech epicenter of the year.
India, the market BlaBlaCar once walked away from, is now its biggest
Rivian will pay $250M to settle lawsuit over R1 price hike
20-year-old dropouts built AI notetaker Turbo AI and grew it to 5 million users
Instagram users can now use Meta AI editing tools directly in IG Stories
Two days after OpenAI’s Atlas, Microsoft relaunches a nearly identical AI browser
Amazon will buy thousands of pedal-assist cargo vehicles from Rivian spinoff Also
Rivian spinoff Also reveals a high-end modular e-bike for $4,500