Melissa set to be the strongest hurricane to ever strike Jamaica - Ars Technica
Melissa set to be the strongest hurricane to ever strike Jamaica
Storm reached sustained winds of 160 mph on Monday morning.
Hurricane Melissa, with a well-defined eye, can be seen in this satellite image from Monday morning.
Hurricane Melissa, with a well-defined eye, can be seen in this satellite image from Monday morning.
Hurricane Melissa will make landfall in southern Jamaica less than 24 hours from now, and it is likely to be the most catastrophic storm in the Caribbean island’s history.
As it crawled across the northern Caribbean Sea on Monday morning, Melissa officially became a Category 5 hurricane with 160 mph winds,
The hurricane will likely fluctuate in intensity over the next day or so, perhaps undergoing an eyewall replacement cycle. But the background conditions, including very warm Caribbean waters and low wind shear, will support a very powerful hurricane and the potential for further strengthening.
This means that Melissa will almost certainly be the strongest tropical system to strike Jamaica in more than 150 years of records, eclipsing Hurricane Gilbert in 1988, which struck the island as a Category 3 storm and caused 45 deaths.
The island, the third largest in the Caribbean by area and with a population of more than 3 million people, has had plenty of advance warning about the threat of Melissa. Forecasts have generally indicated that the island would be in the storm’s crosshairs and that rapid intensification was likely over the weekend.
Official track forecast for Hurricane Melissa on Monday morning.
Official track forecast for Hurricane Melissa on Monday morning.
Nevertheless, it’s difficult to prepare for a hurricane like this. Melissa has already brought waves of heavy rainfall to Jamaica, and before it exits to the north on Tuesday night, some locations are likely to see in excess of 40 inches. That will cause significant mudslides in the country. The storm’s winds will destroy buildings and power lines, and its surge will inundate coastal areas.
The sole bright spot is that, as of Monday, the core of the storm’s strongest winds remains fairly small. Based on recent data, its hurricane-force winds only extend about 25 miles from the center. Unfortunately, Melissa will make a direct hit on Jamaica, with the island’s capital city of Kingston to the right of the center, where winds and surge will be greatest.
Beyond Jamaica, Melissa will likely be one of the strongest hurricanes on record to hit Cuba. Melissa will impact the eastern half of the island on Tuesday night, bringing the trifecta of heavy rainfall, damaging winds, and storm surge. The storm also poses lesser threats to Hispaniola, the Bahamas, and potentially Bermuda down the line. There will be no impacts in the United States.
Most US coastal residents will consider this Atlantic season, which officially ends in a little more than a month, to be fairly quiet. There have been relatively few direct impacts to the United States from named storms.
One can see the signatures of Erin, Humberto, and Melissa in this chart of Accumulated Cyclone Energy for 2025.
One can see the signatures of Erin, Humberto, and Melissa in this chart of Accumulated Cyclone Energy for 2025.
But this season has been sneakily strong. Melissa is just the 45th storm since 1851 to reach Category 5 status, as defined as having sustained winds of 157 mph or greater. Already this year, Erin and Humberto reached Category 5 status, and now Melissa is the third such hurricane. Fortunately, the former two storms posed minimal threat to land.
Before this year, there had only ever been one season with three Category 5 hurricanes on record: 2005, which featured three storms that all impacted US Gulf states and had their names retired, Katrina, Rita, and Wilma.
Eric Berger is the senior space editor at Ars Technica, covering everything from astronomy to private space to NASA policy, and author of two books:
, on the development of the Falcon 9 rocket and Dragon. A certified meteorologist, Eric lives in Houston.
10M people watched a YouTuber shim a lock; the lock company sued him. Bad idea.
New image-generating AIs are being used for fake expense reports
AT&T ad congratulating itself for its ethics violated an ad-industry rule
A single point of failure triggered the Amazon outage affecting millions
Tesla’s “Mad Max” mode is now under federal scrutiny
the noise for over 25 years. With our unique combination of
technical savvy and wide-ranging interest in the technological arts
and sciences, Ars is the trusted source in a sea of information. After
all, you don’t need to know everything, only what’s important.
© 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or
registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our
reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except