The Morning After: Rivian spinoff Also made a modular e-bike with a virtual drivetrain
The Morning After: Rivian spinoff Also made a modular e-bike with a virtual drivetrain
Spinning off from Rivian, the TM-B e-bike is Also’s attempt at a do-it-all e-bike. It’s pitching it as flexible enough for commuting, trail riding or kid- and cargo-hauling because its modular frame can swap in bench seats or cargo racks. But the frame only comes in a single size. Still, Also (hate that name) says the standard battery is good for 60 miles of riding and can be charged via USB-C.
Besides the modularity, another unique feature is its drive system, called DreamRide. Instead of a mechanical connection between the bike’s rear wheel and the pedals, the TM-B uses “software-defined pedaling,” so pedaling transfers to the generator (and the battery) instead of simply pushing you forward. It’s a different take on e-bike riding, and I’m not entirely sold on it.
From the people that brought you Rivian vehicles, there are plenty more tech touches, including a 5-inch touchscreen display and a built-in security system that automatically locks the frame and rear wheel when you walk away, a la Cowboy and VanMoof.
The first model to ship will be the $4,500 TM-B Limited Launch Edition, which has a range of up to 100 miles. There’s also a $4,500 TM-B Performance model, with a slightly different color scheme, available in the “first half” of 2026. Finally, there’s a base-level TM-B model with a range of up to 60 miles, which only comes with standard ride modes. Also hasn’t announced an exact price but says it will cost less than $4,000 when it ships “later in 2026.”
Federal investigators are looking into Tesla’s Mad Max mode, which reportedly defies speed limits
Microsoft apparently ordered its Xbox division to boost profits to an unrealistic level
Cinemark is adding more 70mm IMAX screens ahead of Christopher Nolan’s The Odyssey
Google’s AI health coach will soon be available to some Fitbit Premium users
A preview version of Google’s long-awaited AI health coach launches tomorrow for some Fitbit Premium users in the US. Google says it’ll incorporate user feedback to “add, change or improve features and capabilities.” The company warns users that “initially, there will be some gaps” as it sort of beta tests the coach. The coach can be a sounding board for personal health, fitness and sleep goals and also acts as a personal trainer. Google says it can check progress, create workouts, give advice on trends and review and adjust fitness plans.
US Customs and Border Protection will photograph visitors for facial recognition database
The US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) submitted a new measure that allows it — for facial recognition — to photograph any non-US citizen who enters or exits the country. CBP and the Department of Homeland Security want to crack down on threats of terrorism, fraudulent use of travel documents and anyone who exceeds their authorized stay, according to a filing with the government’s Federal Register. The government agency can already request photos and fingerprints from anyone entering the country, but this rule change would allow it to gather photos of anyone exiting as well.