This Is the Nuclear-Powered Ship Deployed in Trump’s War on Drug Boats | WIRED
This Is the Nuclear-Powered Ship Deployed in Trump’s War on Drug Boats
is a $13 billion aircraft carrier sailing to the Caribbean with nuclear propulsion, an electromagnetic plane launcher, and 90 aircraft onboard.
The Pentagon has deployed the USS Gerald R. Ford in an anti-drug trafficking mission in the Caribbean.
, the US Navy’s most advanced aircraft carrier, is heading to the Caribbean Sea as part of a Pentagon strategy it says is meant to strengthen the fight against
The news was confirmed late last week by Sean Parnell, assistant secretary of defense for public affairs,
. In his message, he explained that the deployment of the
“will strengthen the United States’ ability to detect, monitor and dismantle illicit actors and activities that compromise the security and prosperity of US territory, as well as our stability in the Western Hemisphere.” Until now, only combat vessels and aircraft had been mobilized in the area.
Since last month, President Donald Trump’s administration has maintained a campaign in Caribbean waters aimed at combating drug trafficking, arguing that the activity of various criminal organizations puts the security of the American people at risk. In recent weeks, the US armed forces have targeted several vessels and accused their operators of transporting drugs, a situation that has increased US diplomatic tensions with nations such as Venezuela and Colombia.
represents an escalation of Washington's military activity in the region, which, according to specialists, could further increase hostilities.
has been described as the most advanced and expensive in the world. Its construction had an estimated value of $13 billion, according to
. It is the first of a new generation of aircraft carriers destined to replace the Nimitz class, which since the 1970s has been the mainstay of the US fleet.
class comprises nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, developed by the Newport News Shipbuilding division of Huntington Ingalls Industries for the US Navy as part of the CVN-21 Aircraft Carrier Program.
incorporates 23 new or improved systems that optimize transportation, communication, tracking, operational performance, weight tolerance and stability functions, among other aspects.
The ship displaces nearly 100,000 tons, is 333 meters long and 40.8 meters wide, and has a flight deck 78 meters wide. One of its main innovations is its advanced nuclear propulsion system, which improves power generation and distribution by 150 percent over its predecessors. This system, developed by Northrop Grumman, is composed of two reactors, four shafts, and a zonal electrical distribution system, allowing it to sail for up to 20 years without refueling.
The ship operates with the Electromagnetic Aircraft Launch System, considered its greatest innovation. This mechanism replaces the traditional steam catapults with a linear electromagnetic accelerator motor, which improves control in the acceleration of manned and unmanned aircraft. In practice, it allows vehicles to be launched at higher speeds, with heavier weaponry or more fuel, extending their range, coverage, and lethality.
Similar technology is used in its 11 advanced weapons elevators that, using electromagnetic rather than hydraulic motors, transport munitions from magazines to the flight deck more quickly and efficiently.
The aircraft carrier is also equipped with a braking system called Advanced Arresting Gear, which uses an electromagnetic motor to control the so-called synthetic arresting cable, reducing its maximum tension and the load on the braking hook and aircraft fuselage. This system makes it possible to stop both drones and supersonic fighters more safely.
The mast integrates planar array radars, an S-band volumetric search radar, and a multifunctional X-band radar, which allow tracking multiple targets simultaneously, both aerial and maritime, hundreds of kilometers away.
In addition, it has a high-precision approach and landing system that, unlike traditional radar-based systems, employs
corrected by a fixed local reference station installed on the ship. This provides extremely accurate guidance to the landing zone, even in adverse conditions or with vessel movement. Thanks to this digital control, the number of operations is increased with lower energy consumption.
can carry an extensive arsenal that includes missiles, cannon shells, bombs, torpedoes, and depth charges intended for anti-submarine warfare.
can accommodate up to 90 aircraft for various purposes: F/A-18 Super Hornet, state-of-the-art fighter jets with versions adapted to jam enemy communications; and E-2 Hawkeye, a surveillance and early warning aircraft. This is in addition to helicopters with submarine attack capabilities and tactical transport ships.
The ship can reach speeds in excess of 34 miles per hour (55 kilometers per hour) and perform around 160 air operations per day, a figure that can rise to 220 in crisis or intense warfare scenarios.
The capabilities of this vessel have raised questions about the true intentions of the United States in the Caribbean. An
by the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) warns that the deployment of the
suggests more of a political signal and deterrence than to a genuine operation against drug trafficking.
“The administration attributes the carrier's deployment to an anti-drug mission, and some of its broad capabilities may contribute to ongoing operations,” the CSIS report concludes. “In general, however, these ships are not well suited for surveillance tasks aimed at curbing drug trafficking. On the contrary, they are highly effective for conducting air strikes and supporting amphibious landings. Moving such an important element of US combat power is significant because of the strategic commitment involved.”
Save up to 40% today with the latest Home Depot coupons for appliances, power tools, and more this fall.
Save 20% with an LG promo code today, plus up to $1,000 off appliances, 40% off bestselling TVs and monitors, and more early Black Friday bundle offers that won’t last long.
Elon Musk's Grokipedia Pushes Far-Right Talking Points
The new AI-powered Wikipedia competitor falsely claims that pornography worsened the AIDS epidemic and that social media may be fueling a rise in transgender people.
All-Clad’s Rotating Pizza Oven Is $800 Off List Price Today
The All-Clad pizza oven was one of my biggest surprises of the summer. For some reason, it's $800 off today.
All-Clad's Factory Seconds Sale Makes Gold-Standard Cookware More Affordable
All-Clad cookware is the best you can buy—and it has a price tag to match. This sale will stretch your dollars, but it ends in a few days.
Man Has Pig Kidney Removed After Living With It for a Record 9 Months
With the demand for human donor organs desperately outstripping supply, scientists are working to see if genetically edited pig organs can bridge the gap.
Sennheiser’s Awesome Wireless Earbuds Are Almost Half Off
These high-end earbuds sound great, and have a much-needed discount.
OpenAI Says Hundreds of Thousands of ChatGPT Users May Show Signs of Manic or Psychotic Crisis Every Week
OpenAI released initial estimates about the share of users who may be experiencing symptoms like delusional thinking, mania, or suicidal ideation, and says it has tweaked GPT-5 to respond more effectively.
AI is changing what careers are possible for students interested in STEM subjects. WIRED spoke with five aspiring scientists to find out how they’re preparing for the future.
Hundreds of People With ‘Top Secret’ Clearance Exposed by House Democrats’ Website
A database containing information on people who applied for jobs with Democrats in the US House of Representatives was left accessible on the open web.
Who better to put Claude on the couch than the original “chatterbot” herself, Doctor Eliza?
And when that didn’t work, I did have sex with AI Pedro Pascal.
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.