Sennheiser’s Awesome Wireless Earbuds Are Almost Half Off | WIRED
Sennheiser’s Awesome Wireless Earbuds Are Almost Half Off
These high-end earbuds sound great, and have a much-needed discount.
All products featured on WIRED are independently selected by our editors. However, we may receive compensation from retailers and/or from purchases of products through these links.
almost 50 percent off on a pair of high-end true wireless earbuds? Amazon currently has the Black Graphite Sennheiser Momentum True Wireless 4 (7/10, WIRED Recommends)
, a full $170 off their list price, with lesser discounts on the
If you've ever used a pair of Sennheiser headphones before, you know they have a consistently excellent sound quality, and the True Wireless 4 are no exception. They're incredibly detailed, particularly for earbuds, regardless of your favorite genre. Our reviewer Ryan Waniata “had a lovely time letting the buds loose across [his] whole music library" and had high praise for the excellent dynamics and precision. If you're an audio nerd who wants every note to stand out and shine, these are a great pick, particularly without the high price barrier.
The noise-canceling isn't perfect, but it does a great job of tuning out traffic and other busy city noises, if you want to sit out in a park and just enjoy some music without being bothered. They compared well to the
, and did a great job of tuning out airplane noise, in case you don't want to lug your over-ears on a quick trip.
In addition to the excellent audio quality and active noise-canceling, they have all the trimmings you'd expect from a modern pair of wireless earbuds. There's a smartphone app that will let you adjust codec settings, or tweak a five-band EQ to fit your preferred listening style. They have multipoint pairing as well, in case you need to switch between your phone and laptop regularly. We were able to get between seven and eight hours of runtime with the ANC turned on, so they should last you through most of the day, and the case brings the total to around 30 hours.
While the textured case and classy earbuds have a unique, eye-catching design, they're both a bit on the large side. If you have small ears, or only carry a small bag, these might not be the best pick, but our guide to the best wireless earbuds would be a good place to start. Otherwise, audio enthusiasts should at least consider the excellent sound the Sennheiser True Wireless 4 can provide.
is a contributor for WIRED with a focus on computing hardware and peripherals. He’s a lifelong Oregonian and an avid Portland Thorns and Timbers supporter. On his days off, you can find him riding his ebike around Portland or taking his dog to the park. ...
The Beyerdynamic Amiron 300 hit their lowest price yet.
One of Our Favorite Smart Speakers Just Reached the Lowest Price We've Seen
Save big on Sonos' stout little smart speaker that ranks among the best we've tested.
Why This $650 Laptop Is the Only Windows Device You Should Buy on Prime Day
For Prime Day, the Dell 14 Plus has dropped to just $650, and for that price, it's the Windows laptop most people should buy.
The best Wi-Fi 7 mesh for most homes is on sale for Prime Big Deal Days.
I've Never Seen a High-End Laptop Sell for This Cheap
This Acer laptop just won Best Buy's Techtober sales event, sporting remarkably high specs for the price.
The impressive and unique Motorola Razr Ultra sees an appealing post-Prime Day discount.
Our Favorite Smart Ring Without a Subscription Is Now $50 Off for Prime Day
You have until October 21 to buy the Ultrahuman smart ring. Or check out one of these other fitness tracker deals for Prime Day.
Google’s Pixel 10 Smartphones Are on Sale for Prime Day
Snag the first Qi2 flagship Android phones at hefty discounts during Amazon’s Prime Big Deal Days.
One of the Best Little Soundbars We've Tested Is on Sale for Prime Day
This sweet Sonos mini-bar can upgrade your TV audio for a great price on Prime Day.
AirPods Pro 2 Are the Best Deal on Apple Earbuds for Prime Day
Grab the last-gen AirPods Pro 2 at a great price during Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days sale event.
This Sony Surround System Is on a Killer Sale for Prime Day
Dive into your favorite movies and games with a great deal on Sony's Bravia Theater System 6.
The rose gold option with GPS and cellular data is down to its lowest price yet for the Apple Watch Series 10.
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.