Lenovo Legion Go 2 review: The utility PC gaming handheld
Engadget has been testing and reviewing consumer tech since 2004. Our stories may include affiliate links; if you buy something through a link, we may earn a commission.
Lenovo Legion Go 2 review: The utility PC gaming handheld
It's big, it's brawny, it's got tons of features and just like a premium SUV, it ain't cheap.
With a score of 85, the Lenovo Legion Go 2 has earned a Recommended rating from Engadget.
years ago, they were designed as more travel-friendly and convenient alternatives to traditional gaming rigs. That meant reduced performance in exchange for increased portability. However, there will always be enthusiasts who want more: increased horsepower, better battery life and all sorts of extra features. Out of all the handhelds on the market today, there's practically no device with more tools and special equipment than the Lenovo Legion Go 2. However, just like a luxury SUV, this bucket of components commands a hefty premium and has capabilities that you might not use every day. But if you are the type of person who's looking for a flagship portable PC with all the bells and whistles, the Legion Go 2 is a true utility gaming handheld.
While it isn't super affordable starting at $1,100, the Lenovo Legion Go 2 is like the SUV of gaming handhelds thanks to its combination of strong performance and unmatched adaptability.
The Legion Go 2 looks like a Switch 2 that's fattened up before hibernating for the winter. It has the same basic design with detachable controllers on either side and a screen in the middle; it's just way bigger and bulkier. The Legion Go 2 weighs two pounds and measures 11.6 inches wide (with its controllers attached) compared to 1.6 pounds and 11.4 inches for the ROG Xbox Ally X (and that's including its big, pronounced grips). Both devices make the Switch 2 look downright petite with its  1.2 pounds and 10.7-inch-wide frame.
Both the Legion Go 2's left and right controllers can be detached. However, Lenovo used regular old latches instead of magnets, so removing them is clunkier compared to the Switch 2.
Unfortunately, without the magnets that Nintendo uses on the Joy-Con, disconnecting the gamepads on the Legion Go 2 isn't nearly as smooth or easy, but it's still relatively manageable. On the flipside, Lenovo uses Hall Effect sensors for its joysticks, which makes them super responsive, even though they're lighter to push around. I appreciate that, unlike many of its rivals, Lenovo kept the kickstand from its predecessor, as it's super handy if you want to prop the Legion Go 2 up and use it like a mini desktop.
Elsewhere, there is a familiar layout for the Legion Go 2’s D-pad, face buttons and shoulder triggers/bumpers, along with two pairs of paddles around back. Critically, Lenovo retained the built-in touchpad on the right controller, which is super handy for those times when you need to mouse around in the Windows 11 desktop. And like its predecessor, you can detach the right gamepad, flick the hidden switch on the bottom into FPS mode and then combine it with Lenovo's included base to create a vertical mouse of sorts.
Here's how the size of the Lenovo Legion Go 2 (top) compares to a major rival like the ROG Xbox Ally X (bottom).
Ostensibly, this setup is meant for people who want extra precision in shooters and there is even an extra set of mouse buttons and an embedded scroll wheel on the controller for that reason. The one hiccup for me is that the puck isn't that much smaller than a typical travel mouse. If I really want ultimate control in FPS games, I'm going to use one of those instead of Lenovo's more awkward alternative.
As for connectivity, the Legion Go 2 features two USB-C ports (one on top and one on bottom) which support data (up to 40 Gbps), power delivery and display output. There's also a microSD card slot for expandable storage and a 3.5mm audio jack.
While a lot of rival handhelds skip this feature, I appreciate that Lenovo still put a kickstand on the back of the Legion Go 2.
I have two small nitpicks with the Legion Go 2's design (aside from its size). First, the headphone port is on the bottom, which isn't ideal as I feel like the top USB-C connector is easier to use when gaming while plugged into the wall. Secondly, Lenovo's fingerprint reader (which is built into the power button) is rather finicky. I didn't have issues unlocking the device, but the sensor is so sensitive that often when I pressed the power button to put the Legion Go 2 into sleep mode, the screen turned off before turning itself on again. This resulted in multiple occasions where I thought I put the handheld to sleep inside the included case (kudos to Lenovo for that freebie) only to come back to a device that was very much awake and felt like it was on the verge of cooking itself inside its padded enclosure.
One of the best features on the Legion Go 2 is its massive 8.8-inch OLED display.
If money and size are not an issue, Lenovo's massive OLED display is the biggest reason to choose the Legion Go 2 over rivals like the ROG Xbox Ally X. At 8.8 inches, it's significantly larger than the 7-inch panel on the ASUS or the 7.9-inch screen on a Switch 2. Not only are its colors super rich and saturated, it has a slightly higher 144Hz refresh rate and a taller 16:10 resolution (1,920 x 1,200). And at 500 nits, it's just as bright as the screen on the ROG Xbox Ally X. The downside is that if you want to game at the Legion Go 2's native res, it does take a little bit of extra performance to achieve stable, playable framerates.
The $1,100 base model of the Legion Go 2 comes with an AMD Ryzen Z2 chip with 16GB of memory and 1TB of storage. However, if you want even better performance, you'll need to upgrade to the $1,350 version that comes with a Z2 Extreme chip and 32GB of RAM, which is the configuration I tested for this review. Frankly, that is a lot of money to drop on a gaming handheld of any kind, though the Legion Go 2 does make up for it with class-leading performance. Well, almost.
If you want big performance, the Z2 Extreme version of the Legion Go 2 is among the best on the market.
While the maxed SKUs of both the Legion Go 2 and ROG Xbox Ally x are based on the same Z2 Extreme chip, Microsoft was able to tweak some of Windows 11's tasks and services that run in the background on Lenovo’s' rival. And while there isn't a huge gap between the two, that optimization does make a difference.
Generally, the ROG Xbox Ally produced framerates that were around seven percent higher than what I got from the Legion Go 2 at the same graphics settings and resolution. In
at 35 watts on medium, 1080p resolution and FSR set to performance, the Legion Go 2 hit 57.5 fps compared to 62.1 fps for the ROG Xbox Ally X. Meanwhile in
at 17 watts on medium, the Lenovo reached 39 fps versus 42 for ASUS. Depending on the game and the exact resolution you're using, that could mean the difference between something being a good experience or not. For example, in
at 1080p on medium, the ROG Xbox Ally X hovered right around 30 fps. Granted, that isn't ideal, but it's not bad for a handheld running a relatively new title. But on the Legion Go 2 at its native res, its average framerate was closer to 25 fps, which forced me to drop down to low settings to get a smoother experience.
This is what the Legion Go 2's controller looks like when you use it in FPS mode.
Like a lot of Windows-based handhelds, it's important to remember that you get more speed when connected to a power outlet. For example, the Legion Go 2's Performance mode tops out at 20 watts when not plugged in, but increases to 32 watts when it is. And if you want to go all out, you're best off using the Custom setting, which gives you a sustained TDP of 35 watts and the ability to boost to 45 watts for up to 10 seconds.
As for the software, Lenovo's Legion Space app has come a long way and it's turned into a solid one-stop shop for launching games, adjusting settings and tweaking performance. As always with Windows-based handhelds, there's still a bit of awkwardness during setup when you're installing titles and having to switch between various menus. Thankfully, Lenovo's built-in touchpad helps smooth that out quite a bit. I'd also argue that because of that trackpad and the handheld's adaptable design, the Legion Go 2 is the most well-equipped portable for anyone who wants to use it like a mini PC. You can prop the display up with its kickstand, connect a display via USB-C and pair a wireless keyboard and mouse (or use the right controller in FPS mode) and suddenly you've got a little desktop for getting some real work done. (Who are we kidding, this is still going to be used for gaming, just on a bigger display with better controls.)
The top edge of the Legion Go 2 features one USB-C port and its power button/fingerprint reader, while the other is on the bottom along with a 3.5mm audio jack and a microSD card reader.
Thanks to a 74WHr cell and a more efficient chip, the Legion Go 2 has gotten a nice bump battery life over its predecessor. However, due to its big display, its longevity isn't quite as good compared to the ROG Xbox Ally X. I tested this by playing
at 1080p on medium graphics and max brightness. The Legion Go 2 did well, lasting almost three hours, though that was 30 minutes shy of what I got from the ROG Xbox Ally X. While you can game for a decent length of time untethered, for any longer trips or time away from an outlet, you'll definitely want to keep the included 65-watt power adapter close at hand.
The Lenovo Legion Go 2 is large and in charge — both in price and size. The base model starts at $1,100, which is already $100 more than a fully kitted-out
with a Ryzen Z2 Extreme chip. Meanwhile, to get the same silicon on Lenovo's handheld, you have to shell out $1,350, and even then, its performance still lags just a tad behind Microsoft and ASUS' collab. But what the Legion Go 2 lacks in value, it makes up for in versatility.
The Legion Go 2 comes with an included case and a puck that turns its right controller into a vertical mouse.
Its 8.8-inch OLED display is a huge upgrade in terms of both screen space and image quality, while features like its touchpad, detachable controllers and kickstand make this thing feel more like a portable hybrid PC than a single-purpose gaming machine. Just like an SUV that might go off-road once or twice a year, you might not use the Legion Go 2's full capabilities all the time, but when you do and everything comes together, you realize all that utility isn't just for show. While the ROG Xbox Ally X is the better value, I appreciate how Lenovo's handheld was made to handle a variety of battle conditions.