20% Off LG Promo Code & Coupons | November 2025 | WIRED
Save 20% with an LG promo code today, plus up to $1,000 off appliances, 40% off bestselling TVs and monitors, and more early Black Friday bundle offers that won’t last long.
in particular are perennial favorites at WIRED, with C-series models like the C4 (
) providing among the best performance for your dollars on the market. LG is about way more than TVs of course. The Korean brand offers multiple products across the A/V landscape, from
, along with a host of other products to upgrade your home setup. Save over 40% with LG promo codes and online exclusive discounts on home appliances, gaming monitors, and more tech.
is poised to be one of the brightest, most beautiful TVs released this year. I saw it in person at CES 2025, and from my brief time with it I can already tell you its new quad-stack panel is a scorcher that keeps the perfect black levels and fabulous colors for which LG OLED TVs are praised. They’ve rolled out their latest version, the
, enhanced with AI for more personalization, an ultra crisp picture, even less lag time, and now it’s $1,000 off. On top of this massive price drop, you can get free professional wall mounting (worth $165), a free TV stand (worth $200), and $200 off when you bundle with a matching soundbar. Plus, select OLED C5 and QNED evo AI TVs are 45% off when you shop, now through November 16. They also have low, guaranteed Black Friday prices until then, so you can get high-tech models for as low as $400 (and beat the rush before they’re out of stock).
Don’t Miss out on Special LG Refrigerator Prices This Black Friday
If you’ve been looking to upgrade kitchen essentials like an
, now's the time. This gorgeous french-door fridge is $1,000 for Black Friday. The LG
More Savings With LG Washer and LG Dryer This Black Friday
The heavily discounted sales don’t just apply to the kitchen, with the LG Washer Black Friday sales slashing prices on washers, including the
with TurboDrum, now $749 ($450 off), and the LG Ultra Large Capacity Smart Front Load Gas Dryer with Sensor Dry & Steam Technology, now $1,029.00 ($520 off).
If you’re looking to save on LG gear today, you can get up to 20% back on your first order with
when you sign up for LG rewards with your email address. Simply go to the
If you’re ready to check out one of those TVs mentioned above, LG’s C4 and the ultra-bright step-up model G4 are both eligible right now in 77-inch sizes. Otherwise, there are plenty of other products to shop currently on sale that you stack with MyLG Rewards for 5% back and points on every purchase.
Students, Teachers, and First Responders Get a 10% Off LG Promo Code
Looking for further discounts? If you’re a teacher, student, or first responder, you could receive an additional LG Promo Code for more savings. To see if you’re eligible, simply click on the
and follow the info to register your account. Exclusive discounts include free installation on refrigerators, cooking ranges, and washer/dryers, including select LG Studio and LG Signature appliances. You could also get year-round savings on LG products with a minimum guaranteed discount of 10% compared to sale prices you’ll find on their website.
Get up to 20% Back With MyLG Rewards or 5% Off Referral Code
, as well as exclusive deals, extended warranties, and free installation. Eligible rewards members can get an additional 5% off LG products if you refer a friend or loved one with the
when they make an eligible purchase of $200 or more. They’ll get 5% off, and you’ll earn 5,000 MyLG Rewards points, so it’s a win-win. This coupon is stackable with other promotions too, so you can still take advantage of the many other featured discounts.
During LG’s once-a-year mega-sale event, Buy More Save More, you’ll save (a lot) more. Some of LG’s most advanced appliances are over 30% off, like smart refrigerators, washer and dryers, oven ranges, and more. Plus up to $1,000 in savings is up for grabs. This includes
, where you’ll get a free single-door fridge when you purchase a French Door model. That doesn’t just mean extra storage for overflow; you’ll save up to $515.
Now is a great time to upgrade the whole house for less with LG
of up to $1,000. You can unlock discounts with every item you buy, starting at $100 when you bundle 2 LG or LG STUDIO appliances (up to $1,000) when you buy 5. Even better? Most major appliances come with free delivery to your room of choice and free installation.
40% Off Monitors and More of LG’s Best Discounts of the Year
Black Friday and Cyber Monday are often the biggest times to save on LG gear, but the brand has pre-Black Friday promotions live right now, so you can lock in Black Friday prices. Last year’s LG TV models are on sale right now as again the company clears out stock for 2025. LG has new product launches and monitor deals up to 40% off. LG’s Pre Black Friday discounts are happening now and you don’t want to miss them. This means huge
Those are most likely the best deals you’ll see this year, including Black Friday, but if you’re not interested in last year’s models, there are already some discounts on the next wave.
Looking for something for the kitchen or laundry room? You could save $200 on
. There are plenty of other ways to save, so if you’re excited to get your LG on, check out these deals now.
is a staff writer, editor, video host, and product reviewer for WIRED with over 10 years of experience in A/V. He has previously published at sites including Digital Trends, Reviewed, Business Insider, Review Geek, and others. He’s evaluated everything from TVs and soundbars to smart gadgets and wearables, ...
The Best Bose Coupons and Discounts for November 2025
Enjoy at least 40% off headphones, speakers, soundbars, and other audio products from Bose.
Get 15% off with Dyson coupon code, plus save up to $290 on vacuums, Airwraps, and more.
Top Newegg Promo Codes and Coupons for November 2025
Enjoy up to 10% off your entire order with today’s Newegg discount code and save with the latest deals for gaming PCs, laptops, and computer parts.
Score $10 off with our Walmart coupon and shop flash deals up to 65% off today.
The Best Early Black Friday Deals to Snag Before They Expire
You don’t have to scroll for hours to find the best Black Friday deals. These are the WIRED-tested products you can trust, at a discount.
Black Friday Google Pixel Deals Are Already Live and Kicking
Score hundreds off the new Pixel 10 range, or snag a discounted Pixel Watch 4 or Pixel Buds.
Save 30% with a OnePlus coupon this month, plus save up to 10% on earbuds, phones, and more.
Save up to 60%, plus an extra 20% with HP promo codes for laptops, printers, PCs, and more tech.
Save With Our KitchenAid Promo Codes for November 2025
Save on every purchase with top KitchenAid coupons from WIRED, including up to $250 off select products this Black Friday.
Shark makes some seriously powerful vacuums, from handheld vacs to steam mops. Don’t miss $100 off, 10% off, and more limited-time coupons from WIRED.
Top B&H Photo Discounts and Deals for November 2025
Enjoy top deals on cameras, computers, and tech essentials at B&H Photo.
Save up to 80% on accessories like phone cases, wallets, and more this month.
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.