Best Gifts for Hikers, Backpackers, Outdoorsy People (2025) | WIRED
16 Adventurous Gifts for Hikers, Backpackers, and Outdoorsy People
Let them pick out their own hiking boots. Instead, try gifting a useful blade or a nature journal to delight your outdoorsy friend.
All products featured on WIRED are independently selected by our editors. However, we may receive compensation from retailers and/or from purchases of products through these links.
the outdoor enthusiast is damn near impossible. Your hiking/camping/cycling outdoorsy friends are often serious gearheads, meticulously poring over reviews, guides, and the perennial wisdom of ounce-counting Reddit users to find
Don't stress trying to pick that exact right thing yourself. The chances of you figuring it out and getting it for them as a gift is exactly zero. That doesn't mean you should punt and
, though (although they might like that). Instead, get them something they totally didn't expect—one of these fun, but useful, sometimes whimsical, things that are almost guaranteed to not only delight them but actually get used outdoors.
And what about you? While you’re here, don’t you need to replace your sleeping pad? Don't forget to check out the rest of our
Updated October 2025: We’ve added several new picks, and swapped out some picks for things we've discovered we like more. But we're sticking with the socks. If you get nothing else, just get the socks. Trust us.
Yes, you read that right. Socks. SOCKS. You should gift socks. Outdoorsy people can never have too many socks. We're hard on socks, which almost guarantees this gift will see some use. What your outdoorsperson especially needs are merino wool socks.
. It will change their lives. Did you know you can wear merino wool for several days in row without smelling like you just spent two weeks at a Phish reunion? Just kidding, Phish fans. But it's true. Merino wool will change your friend or loved one's backpacking life. It's comfortable, has virtually no odor no matter how long you wear it, and helps your body thermoregulate, staying warmer when it's cold, cooler when it's warm.
We love Darn Tough socks in particular because they're comfortable, stand up to considerable abuse, and have some of the highest merino wool content of anything we've tested. The also come in a nearly endless array of fun colors and designs. If you want something warmer, I love these
No outdoorsy person ever regrets owning a Rumpl puffy blanket. (I have one on my couch and one in my car trunk right now!) We used to use a Pendleton wool one, but it was heavy, got wet, and was hard to wash. A Rumpl puffy packs down light, like a sleeping bag. It’s made from 100 percent recycled plastic with a PFAS-free DWR. Coffee spills, puddles, dog hair, and mud just roll right off it—and if not, it’s easy to throw into the washing machine and have it air dry. I have several of these and I particularly like having one in the trunk of my car. It’s useful for an impromptu rain cover or a picnic, putting your dog in the back, and also as an emergency blanket if your car breaks down in a remote location (I have a famous fear of
). Buy one for your outdoorsy friend, and one for yourself.
What is camping without brewing coffee over a morning fire? And what is coffee if not from a Moka pot? This is the classic Bialetti Moka pot on which all other Moka pots are based. It's made of heavy gauge aluminum that heats evenly and won't complain if you put it directly on the coals (although the plastic handle will, so make sure your outdoorsy person puts it on the edge of the fire). It'll brew about a 4 oz cup of very dark coffee (not technically espresso since it's not under pressure, but it's as close as you'll get outdoors).
If your outdoor person isn't a Moka pot lover, other coffee options include this
from Snow Peak. Weighing just 6.3 ounces, you can even hit the trail with this if you’re dedicated to your coffee. Then there's the tried-and-true
), which can be used in a variety of ways and is light enough to pack on the trail, simple enough to use in a hotel room, and make all-around good coffee.
Opinel's classic folding knife practically begs to be taken on a hike with some good hard chorizo, soft Spanish cheese, and a nice baguette. It's the first step to hiking European-style. Or at least how I imagine Europeans hike (always with delicious cheese, cured meats, and cheap wine—please don't ruin my vision, European readers). I got my Opinel as a gift from a friend, and I love it. And I am an outdoor person, so there is your living proof that this is a good gift.
on this knife that you can pick from when gifting. Grab them a kit with a bento box, or a nature lover friend might like the version with handles designed by different artists. The one version I don't recommend is the carbon steel version. Carbon steel is great, but in this case, when you're throwing it in your backpack and possibly forgetting about it for long periods of time, carbon steel will rust. Stick with stainless steel when gifting this.
Chop wood, carry water. I can't promise this hatchet will bring enlightenment, but it will definitely split some firewood, and that's a step in the right direction. Motor City Axe makes some of the best looking hatchets I've seen. They're incredibly well-made (in the USA), and if properly cared for should last pretty near forever. The one I tested is inspired by the north woods of Michigan, but there are others, like
This book changed the way I, and my kids, look at the world. I originally bought because I thought my kids might like it (which they did), but then I stole it, read it cover to cover, bought a sketchbook, and, following along with the book, started to see the world in much more detail than I ever had before. Don't worry if your giftee is not an artist. I am the opposite of skilled when it comes to drawing, and I still love this book. More than drawing, what this book is teaching you is to look closely, observing and recording the world around you, and to form your own understanding of what you've witnessed.
If you want to put together a kind of “curiosity kit” gift package based on the one in the book, pick up a hand lens (I like
because of the way it blocks out the light, though there are
, though those tend to be very personal choices and might not be the best gift unless you know exactly what your giftee wants.
Spending time outdoors gives you more free time to think, and probably the best way to record those thoughts in
. At 3.5 inches x 5.5 inches and only 48 pages long, these soft-cover notebooks fit in just about any pocket and make a great always-on-you notebook for jotting down observations, sketches, or just random thoughts. Field Notes paper is high-quality and smudge-proof, even writing in pencil as I do most of the time. Almost always available in a pack of three, Field Notes come in an astonishing range of colors and themes. The
is a good one for outdoor folks. If you want to level up your pocket notebook gift, consider grabbing
Sitting around a fire is possibly the best part of being outdoors. “Conversation is directed into the fire while dreams and images are drawn out of it,” as the British author John Mitchell once wrote. Also coffee, really good coffee, can be drawn out of the campfire, which is where Campfire Coffee comes in.
Before we get to what makes Campfire Coffee special, let me just say I also test coffee for our
and this is by far the best coffee I've tested this year. Even if there were no campfires involved, I would recommend this to anyone who like a delicious, smooth, dark coffee. Your outdoor friends will especially love Campfire Coffee because it's delicious and it's roasted over an open flame by people who love camping. Campfire coffee also runs a program called
, which is a non-profit helping people who would not otherwise be able to explore the outdoors get outside and experience some wilderness—another place (like those below) that you could make a donation in your outdoorsy friend's name.
The pocketknife is the sort of indispensable everyday tool we should all carry. I've has all sorts of different pocket knives, from the everything-and-the-kitchen-sink
to a three-blade Buck knife I found buried in the dirt when I was a kid.
These days I prefer the simplicity of a folding knife. I was gifted this Benchmade a few years ago by my wife, and I don't think it's left my pocket since (except when I fly, which is rare). It's not cheap, but it's pretty near indestructible, and it has a lifetime warranty. Benchmade will even sharpen it for your giftee if they don't have a way to do that themself.
? Everyone needs more of it, especially the outdoorsperson. Wool really is capable of keeping you warmer when it's cold and cooler when it's warm. In a
against other fabrics (on runners), the wool fabric shirt performed best in both hot and cold conditions. It's effective because merino wool has insulation, breathability, and moisture-wicking thermoregulation properties. That wool is also odor-resistant and very comfortable are just icing on the cake.
. These are are the softest, best-made, best-fitting T-shirts I've ever worn, merino or otherwise. They're incredibly versatile. I've worn them doing everything from backpacking in the summer heat to rolling jiu jitsu to sitting around the fire on cool autumn evenings. I also like that they don't have a “sporty” cut or stitching. They're just … T-shirts.
Robert Macfarlane's love letter to walking is beautiful enough to get even the most ardent indoor enthusiast outside and walking. Not that your outdoorsy friend needs that level of inspiration, but this book is one of the best reads you'll have. I've gone back and read it twice more since I first encountered it a dozen years ago. Macfarlane is able to sink deep into a place in way that all travelers should aspire too, possessing a seemingly endless supply of fascinating connections between the worlds of maps, botany, geology, zoology, history and yes, old foot paths.
of the moment. That's OK, because to the outdoors person, the timeless classic is always better than the latest style, and every outdoors person needs another water bottle. I have four and wouldn't be sad if someone gifted me another one. Nalgenes are lighter than stainless steel. If your outdoorsy person is a long distance backpacker or thru-hiker who usually tote a recycled Smart Water bottle, upgrade their game with
, but isn't well, a fragile, reused water bottle. It's the same size and shape too so it'll fit in the side pockets of your ultralight pack with no issues.
If you want to make your gift a little nicer, a rolled up T-shirt (maybe a
?) fits well inside, or in the case of the ThruBottle, wrapped around the outside.
There are dozens of mapping apps and services, but in my experience a subscription to All Trails is hard to beat (though maybe discreetly ask if they use the app first). A lot of what's great about All Trails is free—including the extensive database of trails and GPS tracking. What you'd be buying for them are the route planning tools and other nice extras, like offline functionality and the option to print maps.
for bikepacking, which offers a good mix of routes and has nice planning tools for mapping your own.
, then don't gift them binoculars, but if they're just getting started, or you think they might enjoy it, these
hit a sweet spot between price, quality, and weight. They're light enough to hang around your neck all day on the trail, and they offer great, bright views through comfortable eye cups. The price is reasonable for the features, and they're often on sale during the holidays.
There are times when you want to hear the silence of the forest. But there are also times when you need some tunes. For the latter we've got
is our top pick for outdoors. The sound quality is surprisingly good for a speaker this size, especially the low-frequency response, which is impressive. There are some new goodies in this latest model, like increased water resistance, an easy-release strap, and a two-hour battery boost (or four with reduced bass).
Chances are, unless your giftee is an outdoor newcomer (in which case, by all means, buy them some gear), they may well have everything they need. Rather than buying them something that's just increasing their environmental footprint, and putting natural resources on a back shelf of their closet, consider making a donation in their name.
You might want to ask them if they have a favorite environmental organization (this is much less awkward to work into a conversation than asking what their favorite handlebar rack is for gravel rides), but if not, check your local outdoor shop for regional groups. These are often your best bet for turning money into action, and they often need the money more. If nothing quite fits the bill, I'll just plug my two favorite groups, the
, both of which do good work helping to protect land and water around the world.
Get best-in-class reporting and exclusive subscriber content that's too important to ignore.
is Operations Manager for the WIRED Reviews Team. He was previously a writer and editor for WIRED’s Webmonkey.com, covering the independent web and early internet culture. You can reach him at luxagraf.net. ...
32 Gifts Teens May Actually Like (According to Our Kids)
Teenagers can be scary and impossible to shop for. From gaming chairs to cologne to slippers, these adolescent-approved gifts can help.
Make a house into a home with these gifts, whether your recipient is moving into their first house or a great new apartment.
The 14 Best Gifts for Plant Lovers, Both Indoors and Out
Plant parents don’t always want another plant—up your gift-giving game with these favorite plant presents we've tested.
We chugged chilled beverages to bring you our favorite coolers for every situation.
The Best Workout Headphones for Moving Around Constantly
Rock your inner jock with a pair of sturdy, sweatproof, and tangle-proof headphones. Here are our favorites.
A Former Barista Tests the Most Popular Milk Frothers
Up your home espresso-making game with these WIRED-tested foam makers—including our top pick, Subminimal's NanoFoamer Pro.
The Best Meal Kits of 2025, Tested by a Former Restaurant Critic
Here are the best meal kits in 2025, from Martha Stewart’s meal kit to the best meal delivery on a budget.
The Best Essential Oil Diffusers for Freshening Up Your House
Keep things smelling fresh with these handy home gadgets. After researching and testing several picks, the Urpower Aroma is our favorite for most people.
The Best USB-C Cables for Your Phone, Tablet, or Laptop
Unravel the tangled world of cords and find the ones you need to charge your gadgets and transfer data.
Pod coffee makers are a convenient way to get caffeinated. Of the eight we've tried so far, the Bruvi BV-01 is our top pick.
WIRED has tested 100-plus bed-in-a-box mattresses for a week each. Our top pick, the Helix Midnight Luxe hybrid, is the best bed you can buy online.
The Best Dehumidifiers to Keep Your Home Cool and Dry
If you care about good air, it’s time for a dehumidifier. These are the best ones we've tested for everything from basements to drying laundry.
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.