PayPal partners with OpenAI to let users pay for their shopping within ChatGPT | TechCrunch
Pavlo Gonchar/SOPA Images/LightRocket / Getty Images
PayPal partners with OpenAI to let users pay for their shopping within ChatGPT
Paypal said on Tuesday that it is adopting a protocol in combination with OpenAI’s “Instant Checkout” feature to let users pay for their shopping directly within ChatGPT, starting in 2026.
Paypal is adopting the Agentic Commerce Protocol (ACP), an open-source specification developed by OpenAI that lets merchants make their products available within AI apps, consequently enabling users to shop using AI agents. Meanwhile
, launched in September, lets users confirm their order, shipping, and payment details, and complete purchases without leaving ChatGPT.
Customers can use their Paypal wallets for checkout, which, the company said, would enable it to provide buyer and seller protection, as well as dispute resolution. The company is also providing technology to handle card payments from within ChatGPT using a separate payments API.
And next year, merchants using Paypal products will have their products be discoverable on ChatGPT, starting with categories like apparel, fashion, beauty, home improvement and electronics. Merchants will not need to build any integrations, as PayPal will handle merchant routing and payments behind the scenes.
The company said it is also launching an agentic commerce suite that would let merchants feature their catalogs within AI apps, accept payments on different AI apps, and get insights about consumer behavior.
PayPal has been working to insert itself as a payments partner within various companies’ AI-enabled shopping experiences, particularly as people increasingly use AI apps to do their daily tasks. In May, the company
PayPal said, apart from the partnership on commerce, the company is giving enterprise access to ChatGPT to all of its employees and allowing its engineers to make better use of OpenAI’s coding tools, Codex.
Google Cloud, Netflix, Microsoft, Box, Phia, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. And don’t miss 300+ showcasing startups in all sectors.
Bring a +1 and save 60% on their pass, or get your pass by Oct 27 to save up to $444.
Google Cloud, Netflix, Microsoft, Box, Phia, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. And don’t miss 300+ showcasing startups in all sectors. Bring a +1 and save 60% on their pass, or get your pass by Oct 27 to save up to $444.
“Hundreds of millions of people turn to ChatGPT each week for help with everyday tasks, including finding products they love, and over 400 million use PayPal to shop,” Alex Chriss, president and CEO of PayPal, said in a statement. “By partnering with OpenAI and adopting the Agentic Commerce Protocol, PayPal will power payments and commerce experiences that help people go from chat to checkout in just a few taps for our joint customer bases,” he added.
Ivan covers global consumer tech developments at TechCrunch. He is based out of India and has previously worked at publications including Huffington Post and The Next Web.
You can contact or verify outreach from Ivan by emailing
Have a +1 you’d like to bring to Disrupt? Bring them along and save 60% on their pass. Or get up to 30% off on group passes.
Join 10,000 founders, investors, and tech leaders — and save when you come together to the tech epicenter of the year.
India, the market BlaBlaCar once walked away from, is now its biggest
Rivian will pay $250M to settle lawsuit over R1 price hike
20-year-old dropouts built AI notetaker Turbo AI and grew it to 5 million users
Instagram users can now use Meta AI editing tools directly in IG Stories
Two days after OpenAI’s Atlas, Microsoft relaunches a nearly identical AI browser
Amazon will buy thousands of pedal-assist cargo vehicles from Rivian spinoff Also
Rivian spinoff Also reveals a high-end modular e-bike for $4,500