for its Premium and Premium Plus plans. This is the third price increase in as many years. If your bank account is feeling the pain, or if you're just looking to
. Here's everything you need to know about canceling your Peacock subscription.
The simplest way to end your Peacock Premium service is if you're being billed directly by the company. You can follow the same steps in a web or mobile browser.
Log in to your Peacock Premium or Premium Plus account.
That's pretty simple, but things get a bit more complicated if you're not in a direct-billing situation.
Like most modern streaming platforms, Peacock has partnerships with third-party providers like Apple and Amazon. This lets users sign up for the service through an entirely separate platform, like Prime Video. Cancelling has to also go through this third party. The general idea here is to sign into that account and find somewhere to manage billing and subscriptions, looking for Peacock. Here are specific steps for some of the more common providers.
Tap on your name at the top of the screen and tap Subscriptions.
Select your Peacock subscription to manage and make changes.
Go to Amazon Memberships and Subscriptions using a web browser.
Navigate to your Peacock subscription and select Cancel Subscription.
Confirm that you’re signed in to your Google account.
On the top right, click your Google account icon and select Payment & Subscriptions.
Click the Subscriptions tab and select your Peacock subscription.
Peacock is often given away by internet providers like Comcast and phone carriers, among others. These plans often start free, but that goes away after a year or so. Check the fine print to see when your gifted subscription will run out, as you'll begin getting charged the usual rate. The best way to cancel these subscriptions is via the entity that offered it in the first place. This means you'll have to call up Xfinity or Spectrum directly. A customer representative should be able to handle the cancellation.
No, Peacock doesn't currently offer the ability to pause a subscription. The best way to effectively "pause" a subscription is to cancel via one of the aforementioned methods and then resubscribe at a later date.
Cancelling a Peacock subscription doesn't immediately end your service. There are no partial refunds given, so you'll have full access to the account until the next payment date. At that point, the service will revert to the free tier. This means that if you change your mind before the next pay period, it's really easy to get things going again. Just look for a Restart Subscription button somewhere on the Account page.
Like most modern tech services, cancelling doesn't erase any of your data. The subscription reverts to the free tier and will live on. To permanently close an account, you have to manually fill out a request via the
in the Account page. This will lead you to a website to close the account.