Waymo co-CEO on robotaxi vandalism: 'We're not standing for it' | TechCrunch
Waymo co-CEO on robotaxi vandalism: ‘We’re not standing for it’
Waymo is currently the robotaxi leader in the United States, and that status has put the company’s vehicles in the crosshairs of vandals multiple times over the last year — most recently this
. On the sidelines of TechCrunch Disrupt 2025, co-CEO Tekedra Mawakana said vandalism against Waymo’s robotaxis is “not okay.”
“Obviously, vandalism is a crime, so we’re very focused on working with law enforcement to make sure that we pursue the people who are committing these crimes against our fleet,” Mawakana told TechCrunch. “It doesn’t matter whose fleet it is. It’s not acceptable, it’s not okay, and so, damaging property? We’re not standing for it.”
Concerns about privacy and surveillance have become a major issue in protests during the second Trump administration, especially as the government ramps up its deportation efforts. At the same time, a broader public resistance to tech companies — especially those enabling surveillance — has resulted in multiple Waymo vehicles being damaged and burned by vandals.
During an interview on the main stage Monday, Mawakana reiterated her previous comments that Waymo refuses government requests for the footage Waymo vehicles capture if those requests are “overly broad and unlawful.”
When asked backstage what Waymo is doing to change the perception of its vehicles, Mawakana pointed to the company’s
as part of a broader effort to “make the fleet more a part of the community.” But while Waymo often pushes back on surveillance requests, she said the company has to “continue to work with first responders to help us address this challenge” of vandalism.
“They don’t want it in their cities. It doesn’t keep people safe. We don’t want it,” she said.
Sean O’Kane is a reporter who has spent a decade covering the rapidly-evolving business and technology of the transportation industry, including Tesla and the many startups chasing Elon Musk. Most recently, he was a reporter at Bloomberg News where he helped break stories about some of the most notorious EV SPAC flops. He previously worked at The Verge, where he also covered consumer technology, hosted many short- and long-form videos, performed product and editorial photography, and once nearly passed out in a Red Bull Air Race plane.
You can contact or verify outreach from Sean by emailing
Have a +1 you’d like to bring to Disrupt? Bring them along and save 60% on their pass. Or get up to 30% off on group passes.
Join 10,000 founders, investors, and tech leaders — and save when you come together to the tech epicenter of the year.
India, the market BlaBlaCar once walked away from, is now its biggest
Rivian will pay $250M to settle lawsuit over R1 price hike
20-year-old dropouts built AI notetaker Turbo AI and grew it to 5 million users
Instagram users can now use Meta AI editing tools directly in IG Stories
Two days after OpenAI’s Atlas, Microsoft relaunches a nearly identical AI browser
Amazon will buy thousands of pedal-assist cargo vehicles from Rivian spinoff Also
Rivian spinoff Also reveals a high-end modular e-bike for $4,500