Home Depot Promo Codes: 10% Off | November 2025 | WIRED
Save up to 50% today with the latest Home Depot coupons for appliances, power tools, and new early Black Friday deals.
much invented the hardware superstore when it began in 1978, just by being so big. They inflated the neighborhood tool shop into a whole city of lumber, hammers, caulk, power saws, and big rolls of wire. I would know I’m in a Home Depot blindfolded, because of a distinct quality to the air—crisp and particulate, smelling like wood dust and paint and the oiled metal of power tools. The Home Depot smell is buried deep in my childhood, filed somewhere between “building a deck” and “first day of spring.” Anyway, the Home Depot website is just as big. And while it doesn’t smell like sawdust, it’s easier to find stuff. And as it turns out, the hardware giant also goes hard on discounts, slashing
and outdoor power tools by up to 50%, not to mention smokers like the new Traieger Woodridge (
. Our roundup includes Home Depot promo codes, new customer coupons, free shipping offers, and Pro rewards to drop prices by as much as 50% when you buy online.
Get 10% Off With Home Depot Promo Codes and Coupons
If you register for Home Depot’s Style and Decor newsletter, you get a special code for 10 percent off on furniture and home accents. Or if you
, you get an immediate $5 off the next in-store purchase of $50 or more. Another easy way to get 5% off at Home Depot is to set up a subscription for your go to products and automatically get 5% off and free delivery on your order.
Shop These Early Home Depot Black Friday Deals to Save up to 50%
Black Friday deals are already kicking off, with huge discounts on a myriad of home project-related items, like
, or 20% off select Electrolux handheld electronics like the ever-popular
Home Depot is also holding its Buy More Save More sale, which ends December 3, where popular
will be majorly discounted, like GE, LG and Frigidaire. Plus, you can instantly save up to an extra $1,000 when you buy 2 or more select kitchen appliances, or you can buy 2, get $200 off, buy 3, get $500 off, or buy 4 or more and get $1,000 off. There are also offers of up to 50% off
, and you’ll even get a free tool with purchase. Plus, for a limited time before the holidays, you can get free next day or two-day delivery on
Use Top Home Depot Coupons for up to $500 Off Tools, Appliances, and More
Home Depot’s website makes it super easy to shop the best current discounts by department in the
, making it easier than ever to find the best deals for any home reno need. Right now, savings include up to $400 off (including up to 50% off) on
including Milwaukee, Ryobi, and DeWalt, plus, you’ll get a free battery or tool kit with tool purchase.
Home Depot also offers huge savings on bundle deals, including up to $400 off LG and $500 off Samsung
including sectionals and modular sofas. You can also shop top sellers like
Check out WIRED’s recommendations in our guide to the
Get 40% Off With Home Depot Deal of the Day Coupons
Home Depot coupons of the moment include whopper deals like 15% off storage solutions, 35% off washers and dryers, and $2,000 off LG kitchen appliances when you buy 2 or more. Explore more deals on
. Like we’ve stated, there are so many ways to save at Home Depot, even when you’re shopping online.
include steep price drops on certain products or entire brands—but the significant price drops only last for 24 hours. Recently they've highlighted essentials for the
include 40% off faucets, 25% off toilets and bathtubs, and 40% off vanities. That’s a whole lot of savings for one of the most expensive home renovations you can do.
. Not only do Deals of the Days (and over 1 million products) qualify for free shipping, but you can also get free delivery to your local Home Depot store or straight to your door with online orders over $45.
for frequent flyers, whether you’re a contractor or just undergoing a serious remodel this year. This means exclusive prices up to 20% off, 10% discounts on bulk buys, a rewards point system, and occasional $50 off $250 coupons too. Painting the house? The program also nets you 10 to 20 percent off paint and primers. Pro Xtra offers multiple tiers, from basic membership to Elite and VIP.
Special Buys of the Week are bargains that are worth checking out, and pros can get discounts with the
—and that’s on top of exclusive discounts and everyday discounted pricing on items. Hot offers this week include: free tools or batteries with your purchase of tools from Milwaukee, RYOBI, and more premium brands, plus 20% off flooring. Also grab 40% off bathroom products like Kohler showers, tubs, vanities, faucets, tubs, and toilets, including luxury upgrades like Horow smart toilets and bidets.
offering discounts to active service members, veterans, and their spouses, offering 10 percent off all eligible purchases. You’ll need to register to verify your military status through
, and from then on you can just scan your virtual ID or enter your phone number at checkout, same way you do at the grocery store. Note that military discounts are limited to $400 each calendar year, and this resets each year. Some commodity products are excluded, including lumber, wire, and building materials. Appliances are also out in the cold, but military families may still find special deals or tax-free shopping through Home Depot’s
is a staff writer and reviewer on WIRED's Gear team, where he focuses on home and kitchen devices that range from
. Before joining WIRED in 2024, he covered food, drink, business, culture, and technology for ...
Save With Our KitchenAid Promo Codes for November 2025
Save on every purchase with top KitchenAid coupons from WIRED, including up to 25% off countertop appliances.
All-Clad's Factory Seconds Sale Makes Gold-Standard Cookware More Affordable—for Now
All-Clad cookware is the best you can buy—and it has a price tag to match. This sale will stretch your dollars, but it ends soon.
This fall, The Home Depot cut prices on bedding, cutlery, rugs, and Milwaukee power tools. Here’s where to find the biggest deals.
Save up to $400 on top air purifiers and filters with verified AirDoctor promo codes and special offers for November 2025.
The Home Depot Black Friday Sale Started Early This Year
Black Friday lasts a month this year at the Home Depot, including half off select tools and tool sets, and deals on Google Nest smart home devices.
Top Newegg Promo Codes and Coupons for November 2025
Enjoy up to 10% off your entire order with today’s Newegg discount code and save with the latest deals for gaming PCs, laptops, and computer parts.
From personalized gifts to business essentials, WIRED can help you save with our selection of VistaPrint promo codes.
Get 15% off with Dyson coupon code, plus save up to $290 on vacuums, Airwraps, and more.
New to Govee? Get a $5 coupon on your first purchase just for signing up.
Top TurboTax Discount Codes and Coupons for November 2025
Tax season doesn’t have to be stressful. Save on Live Assisted, 10% off Full Service, and more with exclusive TurboTax coupons right here on WIRED.
Save 30% or 10% with Samsung coupon codes, up to $2,100 on appliances, plus more discounts on the Galaxy Z Fold7, Flip7, and S25.
Save up to 60%, plus an extra 20% with HP promo codes for laptops, printers, PCs, and more tech.
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.