Zoom CEO Eric Yuan says AI will shorten our workweek | TechCrunch
Zoom CEO Eric Yuan says AI will shorten our workweek
believes that AI assistants will finally allow us to shorten our workweek. Speaking on stage at the
on Monday, Yuan discussed his videoconferencing product’s embrace of AI, which includes a “digital twin” feature where an AI avatar can speak for you.
with investors this year, demonstrating the technology’s potential and ability to push the “boundaries of communication,” he said.
At Disrupt, the exec emphasized spending a lot of time talking about AI and the right products to bring to market.
When asked about what he’s investing in, he responded, “AI, AI, and AI.” The technology is the subject of multi-hour strategy meetings, as Zoom believes in its potential to transform work.
Yuan also suggested there were many more use cases for AI companions, beyond just video conferencing stand-ins. He offered a potential future scenario where two business execs were negotiating a contract over Zoom.
Instead of being on a call for a long time, they could send their digital twins to work together on the plan first, Yuan said.
He also spoke of how AI could assist with email, checking your messages for you, and help you figure out what was important and in need of a response.
Plus, Yuan believes that AI could enhance Zoom’s broader suite of solutions, which includes things like an online
“Today, I need a manually focus on all those products to get work done. Eventually, AI will help,” Yuan said.
“By doing that, we do not need to work five days a week anymore, right?… Five years out, three days or four days [a week]. That’s a goal,” he said.
Have a +1 you’d like to bring to Disrupt? Bring them along and save 60% on their pass. Or get up to 30% off on group passes.
Join 10,000 founders, investors, and tech leaders — and save when you come together to the tech epicenter of the year.
Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage.
TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight.
Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly.
Provides movers and shakers with the info they need to start their day.
Mbodi will show how it can train a robot using AI agents at TechCrunch Disrupt 2025
Oxford spinout RADiCAIT uses AI to make diagnostic imaging more affordable and accessible — catch it at TechCrunch Disrupt 2025
The 2025 Startup Battlefield Top 20 are here. Let the competition begin.
PayPal partners with OpenAI to let users pay for their shopping within ChatGPT
OpenAI offers free ChatGPT Go for one year to all users in India
Zoom CEO Eric Yuan says AI will shorten our workweek