Best phone 2025: the top smartphones to buy right now | The Verge
Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.
Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.
Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.
Flagship phones cost a small fortune these days. We can help you pick the right one and get the most for your money.
Flagship phones cost a small fortune these days. We can help you pick the right one and get the most for your money.
Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.
If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission.
Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.
is a senior reviewer with over a decade of experience writing about consumer tech. She has a special interest in mobile photography and telecom. Previously, she worked at DPReview.
. And that’s just fine! Most people buying a new phone just want something familiar that works better than the device they’re replacing. If that’s your MO, then you’re sure to find something reliable in my recommendations below.
But even if you’re looking for something a little more
, you’ve got some great options. They’re going to be pretty iterative compared to whatever you’re using now — we’re in more of a software era than a hardware innovation cycle these days — but you can still find a delightful new device. We finally have a folding phone that
A lot of people in the US get their phones through carrier deals, and no judgment here if that’s the route you take —
. Just be sure you know what you’re getting into and how many years you’ll need to stay on that Super 5G Everything Unlimited Plus plan to keep the monthly device reimbursements coming.
There’s no shortcut to properly testing a phone; I put my personal SIM card (physical or otherwise) in each phone I review and live with it for a minimum of one full week. I set up each phone from scratch, load it up with my apps, and go about living my life — stress testing the battery, using GPS navigation on my bike while streaming radio, taking rapid-fire portrait mode photos of my kid — everything I can throw at it. Starting over with a new phone every week either sounds like a dream or your personal hell, depending on how Into Phones you are. For me, switching has become
The phones listed here have powerful processors and enough RAM to keep up for years, so it’s fair to expect more than a handful of OS updates throughout the life of your phone. Four years of new OS versions and five years of security updates are a healthy benchmark for this class, and many of the phones here meet or exceed that standard.
Most phone cameras perform well in good lighting, from flagship models to $300 budget phones. The devices listed here offer a little something extra, like a useful telephoto lens, a great portrait mode, or impressive low-light shooting — and many include all three. Stabilization for the main camera unit to improve low-light performance is a must in this category.
The very best devices carry robust IP68 ratings, durable glass on the front and back, and sturdy aluminum exterior frames.
In addition to the very best devices at any price, I look for phones that offer the best mix of must-have features for good prices. That might lead to recommending a lower-tier model if it’s particularly feature-rich for its price, or last year’s model if it’s still sold new and this year’s device doesn’t offer many upgrades.
If you’re looking to spend a little less and still get the best smartphone on a budget, you can find something really good for under $600. For those recommendations,
Apple Intelligence is still somewhere between useless and MIA
48-megapixel f/1.6 main with sensor-shift IS; 48-megapixel ultrawide; 18-megapixel selfie /
This year’s standard iPhone offers a handful of major upgrades over its predecessor, including a larger 6.3-inch screen with a 120Hz panel and an always-on display. These two features make the everyday experience meaningfully better, but they’re not the only ones: you also get faster performance, better battery life, and twice the amount of base storage at 256GB. It also has the same starting price of $799, which is a
The iPhone 17’s higher refresh rate display is a huge upgrade.
On the camera front, the iPhone 17’s new 48-megapixel ultrawide matches the Pro’s resolution, delivering sharper, more vibrant shots, while the main camera remains reliably good in most conditions. It also features the Pro’s 18-megapixel selfie camera, which lets you take horizontal shots without rotating the device. If you care about zoom or portraits, the iPhone 17’s lack of a telephoto camera is the clearest reason to go Pro. For most people, though, the device’s 2x “optical quality” zoom will be fine for everyday snaps, making it a great upgrade.
Main and ultrawide cameras aren’t quite as good as the Pro
48-megapixel f/1.7 main with OIS; 13-megapixel f/2.2 ultrawide; 10.8-megapixel 5x telephoto with OIS; 10.5-megapixel selfie /
The Pixel 10 is an easygoing Android phone that offers some handy upgrades over its predecessor. The addition of Qi2 with built-in magnets is a delight, making it easier than ever to quickly charge up without plugging in. AI features like Magic Cue, which can proactively suggest information based on what you’re doing on your phone, are finally showing promise. And for the first time ever, the base model features a dedicated telephoto lens.
But, alas, there’s a catch: The Pixel 10 no longer features the same main and ultrawide camera hardware as the Pro. You’re essentially getting the two rear cameras found in the midrange Pixel 9A, plus a telephoto lens. Still, as a whole, the device’s triple camera system produces images that are totally fine. Beyond the cameras, the Pixel 10 features the same Tensor G5 chipset that’s found in the Pro phones — handy for those aforementioned AI features.
The Google Pixel 10 and 10 Pro come with magnets, a new chip, and AI everywhere
How Google’s new Pixel 10 phones compare to one another on paper
Overall, the Pixel 10 mostly improves upon what made last year’s Pixel 9 such a solid release. We’re not thrilled with the downgraded camera, but the addition of Qi2 and a telephoto lens helps to soften the blow. If you can live with the camera tradeoffs, the Pixel 10 is still a smart pick for anyone who wants a flagship experience at a more approachable price.
200-megapixel main with OIS; 50-megapixel 5x telephoto with OIS; 10-megapixel 3x telephoto with OIS; 50-megapixel ultrawide; 12-megapixel selfie /
Samsung’s “Ultra” S-series phone is still your best bet for a maximalist Android phone, even if ultra doesn’t quite mean what it once did. You still get four rear cameras — including a 3x and 5x telephoto — a massive screen, and a built-in S Pen stylus. The battery goes all day, the processor is top-notch, and there are AI features aplenty if you’re into that sort of thing. There’s just no other phone quite like it.
This year, Samsung removed the Bluetooth features from the stylus. That stings a little, especially considering that the company swapped a 10x zoom for the shorter 5x camera the year before. It still amounts to a great phone, but it’s one of the priciest slab-style phones you can buy, and Samsung seems to be cutting features without adding back any extra value. It’s still “ultra” alright, but it doesn’t feel quite as special as it used to.
48-megapixel f/1.7 with OIS, 13-megapixel ultrawide, 13-megapixel selfie /
Every year, we’re pleasantly surprised by how much Google packs into its midrange Pixel A-series devices. Last year, it was the Pixel 8A, and this year, it’s the even better Pixel 9A. For $500, the 9A offers Google’s fourth-gen custom Tensor G4 chipset (the very same chip that’s in the pricier Pixel 9 and Pixel 9 Pro), a brighter and larger 6.3-inch OLED display, and an IP68 rating for improved durability. Plus, you get the benefit of seven years of software updates and security support. What you end up with is a device that delivers fantastic value, especially compared to other
The Pixel 9A offers a handful of other features that put it above the pack, like a 120Hz refresh rate, wireless charging, and the largest battery across the Pixel line. It does fall short in a few areas, though — the camera’s low light performance and Portrait mode could be better. That said, the 9A’s camera is still great for everyday snaps, and for the price, the device is an easy recommendation as the best in this category.
48-megapixel f/1.78 with sensor-shift IS; 48-megapixel 8x telephoto with OIS; 48-megapixel ultrawide; 18-megapixel selfie /
The iPhone 17 Pro is the model to get if you want Apple’s most capable camera system and the longest battery life you can get in an iPhone. All three rear sensors use 48-megapixel lenses — including the telephoto with 4x zoom — and support creator-focused tools like ProRes RAW. Apple’s switch to an aluminum body with a vapor chamber also helps keep temperatures low during intensive tasks, including high-res video recording, while the Ceramic Shield 2 front improves durability. And it’s all wrapped in a fresh, rounded design.
As part of that redesign, Apple carved out the frame to fit a larger battery, which lasts through a typical day of mixed use while browsing social media, gaming, etc. The 17 Pro supports 40W wired charging and slightly faster MagSafe charging, allowing you to take it from zero to 50 percent in as little as 20 minutes. It also supports USB 3 for lightning-fast transfer speeds, so you can quickly copy over all your vacation photos and videos to your laptop.
If you prefer a larger screen and battery, there’s also the iPhone 17 Pro Max.
Since the standard iPhone 17 has the same 120Hz refresh rate and an always‑on display, it’s easier to skip the Pro this year. That being said, if you want longer battery life and the most flexible camera system in the lineup, the 17 Pro is the way to go. Plus, it comes in a bold orange shade that’s unlike anything else in Apple’s lineup.
Still too hard to run full apps on the cover screen
6.9-inch, 1080p, 120Hz OLED inner screen; 4.1-inch, 948p, OLED cover screen /
50-megapixel f/1.8 main with OIS; 12-megapixel ultrawide; 10-megapixel selfie (inner screen) /
Samsung finally got the memo with the Galaxy Z Flip 7’s cover screen. The company’s latest flip phone ditches the file folder-shaped look of its predecessor for a 4.1-inch, edge-to-edge display that wraps around the cameras. With more outer screen real estate, it’s easier to respond to texts and punch in a coffee order without flipping open the phone and getting sucked into a digital rabbit hole.
The Flip 7 still makes you jump through a few hoops if you want to run full apps on the cover screen, but once you’ve wrangled the settings, it unlocks a lot of convenience for everyday tasks. That said, the cover screen isn’t perfect for every app. Sometimes a button hides behind the camera cutout, forcing you to change the app’s window size. But most tasks are a breeze, and opening the phone is always an option.
Finally, Samsung went with an edge-to-edge cover screen.
Under the hood, Samsung swapped out Qualcomm’s processor for an in-house Exynos chip, though we didn’t notice any hits to performance. The new 4,300mAh battery will last you all day with moderate use, but heavy gaming and hotspot use will significantly impact battery life. The camera system, meanwhile, remains unchanged from the
, which isn’t a bad thing. You still get a 50-megapixel main shooter and all the fun flex mode tricks, which are great for capturing candids.
Unfortunately, the Flip 7 still offers no protection against fine particles like dust or sand, which might work their way into the hinge and cause damage. This raises concerns about how the device might hold up over time. But Samsung’s beefed-up warranty and repair program can provide extra peace of mind. Plus, with seven years of OS and security updates, the Flip 7 should prove reliable until you decide to upgrade.
8-inch, 2076p, 120Hz OLED inner screen; 6.4-inch, 1080p, 120Hz OLED cover screen /
48-megapixel f/1.7 main with OIS; 10.8-megapixel 5x telephoto with OIS; 10.5-megapixel ultrawide; 10-megapixel selfie (cover screen); 10-megapixel inner selfie camera /
to anyone but the most diehard gadget nerd. Then Google said “hold my USB-C cable” and bestowed an IP68 rating on the Pixel 10 Pro Fold, making it the first foldable to provide full water and dust resistance. That means the device can survive a tumble on the beach without the hinge and inner screen failing. What’s more, the device features Qi2 support with built-in magnets for accessories and wireless charging. And with a new Tensor G5 chip, it offers smooth performance, whether you’re playing intensive games like
As much as we love the 10 Pro Fold’s improved durability, its cameras can’t quite keep up with those of other 10 Pro models. The device is also heavy and rather chunky; it’s over 40 grams heavier than Samsung’s Galaxy Z Fold 7 and nearly 2 millimeters thicker when folded shut. There’s a plus side to the thicker frame, though: it leaves more room for the phone’s larger battery, which can last a full day with minimal use of the inner display. If you find yourself spending most of your time using the larger display, you may need to find the nearest outlet by the end of the day.
is a very good device, and it’s basically the last small-ish Android phone you can buy in the US. I find the software to be fussier and more cluttered than the Pixel 9’s, so it’s not my overall pick, but it’s a reliable device — and your best bet for a phone that isn’t gigantic.
is a great phone that makes a lot of interesting trade-offs. Apple’s latest entry-level phone starts at $599 and comes with the company’s latest A18 processor, USB-C and wireless charging, a 60Hz OLED display, and the customizable Action Button found on Apple’s more premium handsets. The 6.1-inch phone doesn’t have MagSafe support or a Camera Control button, though, and it’s limited to a single 48-megapixel Fusion camera (sorry, ultrawide stans). That makes it hard for us to recommend over the standard iPhone 16, even if it does start at $200 less.
is an excellent foldable that exemplifies what makes the brand’s phones so unique. It’s one of the best-looking phones you can buy, thanks to its gold-bronze chassis and wooden back. Plus, it features a spacious cover screen that’s handy for quickly performing tasks without opening the device. However, as much as we enjoy the Razr Ultra, Motorola’s promise of three OS upgrades and four years of security updates is on the shorter side.
is an ultra-thin alternative to the big, chunky flagships we’ve seen over the past year. At just 5.8mm thick, it packs a 6.7-inch 1440p OLED display with a refresh rate of up to 120Hz, a 3,900mAh battery, and a Snapdragon 8 Elite processor. Despite its thinner frame, battery life is surprisingly acceptable, though it won’t last as long as other flagship devices. The S25 Edge also lacks a telephoto camera, so it’s not the best phone for portrait photos.
stands out in two key ways: battery life and screen. The 6.78-inch OLED display has a variable refresh rate of up to 120Hz and a resolution of 1264 x 2780, both of which are great specs for a midrange phone. Meanwhile, its 6,000mAh battery can last for a long time — most people are likely to squeeze out two days before the device needs to be recharged. That said, the 13R lacks features like wireless charging and more robust water resistance, and OnePlus is only promising four major OS upgrades and six years of security updates, which is fewer than the seven years of OS upgrades on the Google Pixel 9A.
is the brand’s “first true flagship phone,” with a 6.67-inch OLED screen, a Snapdragon 8S Gen 4 chip, and a 5,150mAh battery. It also features four cameras — three on the back and one on the front — all of which are 50 megapixels. Additionally, the Phone 3 ditches Nothing’s
for a small dot-matrix LED display on the back, which can display images or emoji tied to specific apps and contacts.
is an impressive sophomore effort from Google. Like the Z Fold 7, the outer screen matches the dimensions of a regular slab-style phone, while the inner screen is great for multitasking. The whole package is also light enough that it sometimes doesn’t feel like you’re holding a foldable, though it does suffer from a slightly downgraded camera system compared to other Pixel 9 devices. There’s also no formal dust resistance, so long-term durability remains a concern.
is Google’s most refined flagship yet, blending a premium design with meaningful hardware upgrades like the Tensor G5 chip and Pixelsnap wireless charging. Magic Cue delivers genuinely useful on-device AI that can surface helpful info in real-time, while the camera’s portrait mode is much improved over its predecessor. Battery life is just average, though, and some AI features still feel like they’re being shoved into corners of the device where it doesn’t really need to be. Most readers will be better served by the cheaper Pixel 10.
is another thin book-style foldable that feels like a regular phone when folded shut, though its IP48 rating means it isn’t fully dust resistant. The spacious inner display is great for multitasking and gaming, and its battery can last all day with moderate use. However, with a starting price of $2,000 — $200 more than the 10 Pro Fold — it’s the most expensive device on this list, even if we have seen it occasionally drop to $1,599.
is Apple’s biggest redesign in years, one that measures 5.6mm thick and weighs a mere 165 grams. It’s
than you might expect, too, thanks to its titanium frame and Ceramic Shield 2, and it feels deceptively small despite having a 6.5-inch display. However, there are a few downsides to the thinner frame, including shorter battery life and the lack of an ultrawide camera.
We’re in a relatively quiet period now that Google and Apple have released their latest handsets. There might be a few more surprises in store for the remainder of 2025 — Samsung has yet to release its
— but we haven’t heard much since the summer. Regardless, now is a great time to start taking stock of any deals you see, especially with Black Friday and Cyber Monday around the corner.
Adjusted pricing / availability and added the iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Pro, and Pixel 10 Pro Fold as new picks.
from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates.
Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.
Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.
Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.
Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.
Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.
Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.
Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.
Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.
Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.
Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.
Here’s what ads on your $2,000 Samsung smart fridge will look like
Nike says its first ‘powered footwear’ is like an e-bike for your feet
If you can’t afford a vacation, an AI app will sell you pictures of one
‘There isn’t really another choice:’ Signal chief explains why the encrypted messenger relies on AWS
The PS5 bundle that includes two years of PS Plus Premium is $170 off
Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we’ve tested sent to your inbox weekly.
Trump’s DHS is recruiting ICE officers with a Halo meme
AMD, Department of Energy announce $1 billion AI supercomputer partnership
Spotify finally brings video podcasts and music videos to its Apple TV app
Amazon’s last-gen Kindle is a steal at just $65 refurbished
GM isn’t ready to rip off the CarPlay/Android Auto band-aid quite yet
Trump’s DHS is recruiting ICE officers with a Halo meme
AMD, Department of Energy announce $1 billion AI supercomputer partnership
Spotify finally brings video podcasts and music videos to its Apple TV app
Amazon’s last-gen Kindle is a steal at just $65 refurbished
GM isn’t ready to rip off the CarPlay/Android Auto band-aid quite yet
Pluribus’ Vince Gilligan on making shows that ‘attract really smart viewers’
Here’s what ads on your $2,000 Samsung smart fridge will look like
Sora is showing us how broken deepfake detection is