17 Thoughtful Gifts for Coworkers They'll Appreciate in 2025 | WIRED
Gifts for Coworkers Who Are Hard to Shop for (so, All of Them)
You see them every single day (almost). Our curated guide features personalized gifts for every office personality, from your work bestie to the foodies.
All products featured on WIRED are independently selected by our editors. However, we may receive compensation from retailers and/or from purchases of products through these links.
a microcosm of personalities, making the quest for the best gifts for coworkers exciting and baffling. You’ve got the snack lover, whose bottomless drawer of treats resembles a mini convenience store, always offering a morsel during that mid-afternoon slump. There’s the wellness enthusiast, ever zealous to remind us to take a break and
. And let’s not forget the Gen Zer, a beacon of pop culture, stocked with
and eager to draw you into their latest binge-worthy obsession.
Even if your team is remote, these quirks show in the little details:
that often teeters on the line between productivity and procrastination, and those GIFs we can’t help but overuse. Shopping for gifts for coworkers can feel daunting, but you probably know them better than you think.
To help you brainstorm and reflect on some of the characters in your work environment, we've rounded up thoughtful gifts that cater to every persona, from the foodie to the tech whiz. Don't see anything you like? Don't press Checkout on that lazy gift card just yet—explore our other
Updated October 2025: I've added the Pura Mini smart home fragrance diffuser and the Spigen OneTap Pro 3 Cryomax wireless charger. I've also updated prices and links.
If their workspace could use a morale boost (whose couldn’t?), the Danish-designed Hoptimist desk accessory practically guarantees a smile. Tap it, and it bobs … that’s all. Originally created in the 1960s as a memento of positivity, this tri-colored version’s cheerful energy is infectious. My fiancé has one on his desk, and not only does it get endless compliments, but he also added curly hair to it—because why not make it even sillier?
I’ve got my Pura Mini diffuser in the bathroom to help deal with the smells from my two kitties, and honestly, it’s been the only thing that really masks their odors. But it’s designed for all small spaces like entryways or home offices. If your coworker sets it up in their home, they’ll always think of you. This useful gift keeps on giving since they can pick their own fragrances to use. The scents are safe, clean, and typically pet-friendly. It delivers 30 days of fragrance if you run it for about six to eight hours a day, but I’ve gotta confess, I usually let it run all night in my bathroom. Plus, you can tweak the fragrance strength and set schedules and timers through the Pura app.
When shopping for Christmas gifts for coworkers, especially for White Elephant exchanges, I suggest focusing on practicality. Spigen's phone stand is an excellent office gift, capable of charging iPhones or Qi2-certified devices at up to 15 watts. It features a built-in fan to keep devices cool, along with a subtle blue light that can be turned off to prevent disturbing your sleep. The magnetic pad is adjustable and stable, making it ideal for the iPhone’s StandBy mode. It includes a USB-C cable, but you'll need a separate power adapter (25 watts or more). We have more
If your coworker is always picking up a new hobby, the Woobles Crochet Amigurumi Kit is a unique gift idea. My partner got me
kits, Woobles is an introduction to crocheting without committing to buying a mountain of supplies they may end up being stuck with if the new passion project doesn’t stick. The step-by-step video tutorials are straightforward; if they hit a snag, customer support is available via email. There’s a range of playful options, including special collabs like
for the gamer in your office. I would also purchase this as a
or Secret Santa gift. Bonus: Once they’ve crocheted their Wooble, it can double as desk decor or even be unraveled and remade.
Some coworkers chug their coffee; others microwave it three times a day. Help them break the cycle. This double-walled, vacuum-insulated stainless steel
from Hydro Flask keeps drinks hot for hours, so they can stop making the sad walk to the break room. It's leakproof, fits most cup holders, and looks sleek on a desk or during a video call. Plus, they can swap in a straw lid for iced coffee.
If your coworker's desk looks like a jumble of sticky notes and half-finished notecards, the B5 Purpose Planner might just be their new salvation. It corrals work, home, projects, and miscellaneous brain dump lists into one roomy notepad. Plus, there is allocated space for brainstorming (or doodling) with extra dotted pages. It's undated and six months long, so they can start anytime. Truly
that gets the chaos. Also perfect for the Type A coworker who color codes
OK—technically, this gift is $10 over the budget, but it's worth it for your office best friend. Perhaps a birthday gift? Dandelion's Single-Origin Truffle Collection is perfect for the coworker who references
regularly and won't touch milk chocolate. Each ganache is made from cacao beans sourced from one of five regions: Colombia, Ecuador, Belize, Tanzania, and Madagascar. For the adventurous palate, this gift box hits every note: from fresh strawberry and cheesecake to chocolate sourdough and cherry yogurt. There's a reason we've dubbed it the
. Bonus: USPS priority shipping is free for every box above $25.
For the AFOL, the Lego Succulents kit may very well be on their wishlist. This is also a good gift for the home office plant parent whose green thumb is more…aspirational. It includes nine plants, so they can channel their inner botanist without worrying about water or sunlight. Once assembled, the nine succulents can be arranged into one floral arrangement or scattered throughout their cubicle.
never leaves my desk. It’s a palm-sized knot pillow—made from natural latex foam—kind of like a stress ball with a prettier aesthetic. Its chunky, squishy loops are designed for mindless fidgeting, whether it’s during Zoom calls or when my brain decides to go on autopilot. It’s also oddly soothing, and I catch myself grabbing it whenever I need a self-care moment or just need to occupy my hands.
Shopping for a tech-savvy coworker can be a challenge, but the Anker Nano Power Bank is a great gift
—essentially, all of us these days. Small but mighty, it packs 5,000 mAh of energy, enough to top up most smartphones during long workdays. There’s a built-in rotating USB-C or Lightning connector (
) and a USB-C port (with charger) to recharge the bank. Just when you thought it couldn’t get any cuter, it comes in soft pastel shades like lilac purple and sprout green.
Name one person who doesn’t love a good snack. Seriously, I’ll wait. Better than a gift basket, each TokyoTreat Snack Box—which
—delivers 12 to 17 Japanese goodies. You can expect a melange of dagashi (Japan’s penny candy), a DIY candy kit, and more full-size sweet and savory munchies. Each month is themed, which feels like a festive surprise in the mail, especially during the holiday season. Each bundle also includes a booklet that dives into the snacks and Japanese culture. You can purchase a
three-month gift plan for $37.50 per box (plus shipping fees)
, which is a bit pricey but worth it for your favorite coworker. And hey, you might even get to sample some of those treats yourself. (Sharing is caring!)
is a bestseller for good reason. The horizontal version can carry a 15-inch laptop, a 24oz Owala FreeSip water bottle, a notebook and pen, house keys, and still have room for a protein bar. Reviewer Brenda Stolyar loves the
, so you really can’t go wrong with either. It’s machine-washable, too.
There’s something special about sipping from a coffee mug that’s been handcrafted with care. Made from regional materials in Asheville, North Carolina, no two East Fork mugs are exactly alike—variations in the ceramic glaze are part of the charm and a reminder to appreciate the craftsmanship. It holds up to 12 ounces of
, tea, or your pick-me-up of choice, and is available in
, as well as limited seasonal shades. It’s dishwasher- and microwave-safe (which we love), lead-free (brownie points), and fits an Aeropress.
Le Puzz makes some of the quirkiest puzzles, and this fun gift is perfect for the coworker with a playful sense of humor—or a mild obsession with cats (guilty). The 1,000-piece display depicts a kitty bathroom, complete with Paisley the cat lounging in a claw-foot tub, feline-themed magazines scattered about. Each piece has a unique cut, so it’s as much tactile as visual. Plus, it comes with a resealable bag because losing a piece would be a
If you’re looking for the perfect gift for the tailgater in your life, the
might be it. WIRED writer (and self-described wine slob) Boone Ashworth
for beach days and park picnics. It’s vacuum-insulated, nearly spill-proof, and—most important—dishwasher-safe. The matte finish feels smooth and grippy, even for the sweatiest of palms. If you want the gift to be more personal, the travel mug can be customized with a monogram on the Yeti site.
for his pup. The built-in carbon filter keeps your pup’s water fresh, and when they’re done, you can push the button to pour the leftover water back in. The filter needs replacing every 90 days, or just use filtered water at home and don’t bother. Note: The 15-ounce bottle and filter cradle are top-rack dishwasher safe, but the silicone is not.
Is your coworker a baker, or do you just wish they were? This kit has everything a beginner needs to frost cookies and cupcakes like a pro: 30 piping bags, 13 tips, six couplers, and an icing spatula. Bonus points if they test their creations on the office first—a holiday gift that keeps giving.
. Get best-in-class reporting and exclusive subscriber content that's too important to ignore.
is a product writer and reviewer at WIRED, covering consumer products and
, and more. Before joining the Gear team, she was a music editorial fellow at Pitchfork. She also worked as a freelance journalist, covering fashion, arts, and ...
From a backyard hot tub to the warmest slippers, these picks will make your loved ones feel warm and fuzzy—inside and out.
Make your favorite golfer’s day with the best golf gifts to enhance every part of their game.
From high-tech skin care to cool accessories, these are our favorite picks for the WIRED mom in your life.
The Best Travel Tote for Digital Nomads Who Never Log Off
These hard-working travel totes handle everything from a work trip to a weekend getaway.
Get better posture, fewer back aches, and an ergonomic desk setup thanks to these top laptop stands and risers.
From a booger buster to a food masher, these gifts make this amazing (and difficult!) job just a little easier.
Tackle stubborn stains, ground-in grime, and pesky pet hair with one of these WIRED-tested washers.
These services deliver freshly roasted, delicious coffee picks right to your door—each with its own twist.
32 Gifts Teens May Actually Like (According to Our Kids)
Teenagers can be scary and impossible to shop for. From gaming chairs to cologne to slippers, these adolescent-approved gifts can help.
From models for traveling to humidifiers that double as planters or air purifiers, we've tested a dozen of them.
When going abroad, the right plugs are essential to keep your gadgets charged. These are our favorite travel adapters and chargers.
Tote your photo and video gear around in style. We tested more than 80 packs and rounded up our favorites.
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.