7 Best Sunrise Alarm Clocks to Snag Before the Fall 2025 Time Change | WIRED
The Best Sunrise Alarm Clocks to Help You Rise This Winter
If you want to wake up with the sun but aren’t a morning person, these wake-up lights can simulate a sunrise whenever you want to rouse for the day. (And they do sunsets too.)
All products featured on WIRED are independently selected by our editors. However, we may receive compensation from retailers and/or from purchases of products through these links.
Philips SmartSleep Sleep and Wake-Up Light (HF3650/60)
feeling rested when your alarm goes off, a sunrise alarm clock could change your life. The disruptive jolt of loud beeping and harsh tones isn't a fun way to start the day, nor is it a natural way to help your body rise. I’m a chronic snooze-button kind of gal, and I find a sunrise clock or wake-up light incredibly helpful for me to actually wake up when I need to and follow a healthier circadian rhythm, since the growing light helps tell my body it’s time to wake up. Plus, a bright light is much, much harder to ignore than a noise I can snooze.
After trying nearly every style of sunrise alarm clock on the market, my top pick is the
. It's beautiful and bright, easily doubling as both a wake-up light and a bedside lamp (and can do wind-down routines too!) and has radio controls. The
is another good option with similar capabilities, but not quite as many features. If you want the best sounds, the
has the most impressive array of sounds and sound content, plus great app controls you won't find on most sunrise alarms. Check out everything I've tried and recommend below.
Updated October 2025: The Lumie Bodyclock Luxe 700FM has restocked and returned as our top pick, and we've added notes on the Hatch Baby to Honorable Mentions. We've also ensured accuracy of links and prices.
This sunrise alarm is my favorite I've tested and worth spending a little more on than other models. The Lumie Bodyclock Luxe 700FM's light gets bright enough to fill my bedroom with plenty of light to get ready for bed and read a book, and it's easy to control the brightness setting using one of the two dials on the Luxe 700FM's face. It also has a nice range of 27 alarm sound options, though some are a little weird—I'm not sure if anyone would want to wake up to the sound of goats or a movie projector, but the options are there if you want them. The FM in the name comes from the built-in
You can set up both sunrise and sunset routines, but you'll need the manual to figure it out. The manual is plenty easy to follow, and the steps aren't complicated, but the device itself and its buttons aren't super intuitive. You'll also need to switch on the alarm each night for the following day, or painstakingly set up weekly routines, but it's nice that you can easily toggle it on for the weekdays and not turn it on for Saturday morning. Once you get the controls down and routines set, it’s easy and enjoyable to use as a bedside lamp and a wake-up light, and I also enjoyed the sunset routine to help me wind down as I read my Kindle. The fabric finish also gives it a nice look on my bedside table.
Stylish and bright, and easy to use as a bedside lamp
Has 27 sound options, plus a built-in radio and five favorite stations you can save
No app control, but comes with a handbook to set everything up
This futuristic-looking, circular sunrise alarm clock from Philips looks straight from a sci-fi movie, but packs all the features you'll want in a modern wake-up light. It has both sunrise and sunset routines, nine relaxing sounds to use for either bedtime or the morning, an easy setup that you won't need a manual for, a built-in FM radio (though it's best for selecting a single station to wake up to rather than surfing the channels), and a soft night-light you can easily tap on and off for a quick dash to the bathroom.
Everything on the Philips SmartSleep Sleep and Wake-Up Light is done on the touchscreen, which has deep-yellow lettering that navigates you through setting up the time and your sunrise of choice. My only complaint about this touchscreen panel is that the lettering is a little hard to read when the light is at its full brightness. But that might be the point, since you can only turn off the sunrise by touching the alarm button on the screen, requiring you to face the sunlight in order to try and stop it. You can tap the top of the device to turn off whatever music you've chosen, but the light itself will stay on—perfect for actually staying awake. Sadly, there's only 10 alarm sounds total, which is a bummer for the price.
Touchscreen panel lettering is a little hard to read when the light is at its full brightness
arrived at the start of 2025, replacing the popular Hatch Restore 2. The Restore 3 has everything the previous model had, but with much better physical controls. Instead of just two buttons like the 2, the Restore 3 has four buttons (one of which doubles as a dial to adjust volume) and an alarm toggle, allowing you to better interact with the routines you create in the Hatch app without needing to touch your phone.
I really love this device, especially since you can create bedtime routines with multiple layers—mine starts with a moody red light and some folky music for 10 minutes before switching the light off and switching to ocean sounds. The new buttons are also a game changer, making it easy to adjust the volume, switch between steps in your routine, turn on the Hatch's bedside light mode, and even switch off your wake up time for the next morning without needing to change your settings in the app. It makes the app less necessary once you've set up your routines, which is a huge relief.
The only bummer is that this light doesn't get as bright as others. The bedside lamp mode is more of a reading lamp, and I find it too easy to go back to sleep; the Philips and Lumie are more effective at actually getting me up. Make sure you choose good sounds to force you to wake up if you're the type to roll back over and try to sleep a little longer. You'll also need a
to get access to all of the sound content Hatch has to offer and more routine options.
Light isn't as bright as I'd like as a heavy sleeper
Has a subscription level ($3 a month) to access all content and options
The Casper Glow Light is one of the smallest lights I've tested, but it managed to be plenty bright to wake me up in the morning. Not only is this little light incredibly bright, it's also super simple to use with both physical controls and app setup. Within the Casper Glow app—which is unfortunately iOS only—you set up your wake-up time, and the Glow Light will start to brighten 30 minutes before that set time. You can also set how long you want your Glow Light to dim for, which it will use both in the evenings and after it finishes waking you up.
But the real fun comes from the physical controls and flexibility. The Glow Light is a battery-operated, stand-alone lamp that you can pick up and move around to use, and you turn it on and off by flipping it upside down onto the other side. When you turn it on, it will immediately activate its highest brightness and will dim for the amount of time set in the app (default is 45 minutes). You can also press the button on top of the Glow Light to pause the dimming, and twist the light to either the left or right to make it brighter or dimmer. It's so easy that my two-year-old thought this thing was a light toy rather than my personal alarm clock. The immediate wind-down light is plenty of time for me to lie in bed and read, but I love rotating the light to get my perfect level of brightness as I relax in bed.
It has a little charging base it can sit on and is supposed to last around seven hours of brightness on a charge. That should be about three days of use if you have it bright for about an hour before bed and in the morning. Some nights I keep it on the charging pad, while others I just leave it on my bedside table. It's a really handy little light, and one I plan to travel with since it's so compact. The only downside of this adorable lamp is that there are no sound options.
Cool physical controls that are intuitive: Flip to turn on and off, rotate to adjust brightness
The Loftie Lamp is a beautiful lamp to have on your nightstand. The entire body of the lamp is the light itself, and there's a mesh metal lampshade that's mostly there for decoration while the rest of the lamp does the real work. Using the Loftie app, you can set an alarm that will signal this sunrise lamp to light up, and what the app calls a “wind-down” to signal the lamp to dim.
Both of these work well enough, but if you want an actual audio tone to go off, you need to pair the lamp with the
. The time for both the sunrise and sunset is only about nine minutes, which is a really short window compared to other options, and you can't customize it to take longer like you can with our other picks. Having the clock and lamp go off at the same time didn't make me feel as gently roused as other sunrise lamps because of the short time window, but I found that I had a similar experience if I set the Loftie to light up 15 minutes before my alarm went off. It's also a good option if you don't want audio cues but just want your room to brighten, and it does make for a fantastic bedside lamp. It tends to always stay on my bedside, even if I'm testing another sunrise lamp.
The price of this lamp initially went up significantly
, rising from $275 to $450, but now it seems to consistently cost $300. We'll keep an eye out to see if the price changes any further.
Sunrise and sunset settings, but both are only nine minutes
but it's designed for the Loftie Clock more than the Lamp
Gorgeous bedside lamp that can brighten a whole room.
Has three colors and three brightness levels for each color.
Can only brighten or dim over the course of nine minutes. No adjustment options.
No sound option; needs to be paired with the Loftie Alarm for sound.
This petite sunrise lamp is smaller than the Hatch and a similar size to the WiiM below, but the Dreamegg Sunrise 1 is cheaper (often for close to half the price of the Hatch), still gets surprisingly bright, and has a range of colors. It's usually on sale, too. It has all the basic features you could want: simple sunrise programming, six sound and nine color options, and easy access to activate those colors as a small bedside nightlight. There's no sunset option, but for this price you're still getting a nice range of features.
There are several buttons on the top to control the clock, alarm, and light features. I also really like the two dials on the side: One controls the brightness of the clock face, so you can brighten it to see the time and easily dim it so it doesn't bother you while you sleep (a feature of most digital clocks that I hate!) and another dial on the other side to quickly brighten or dim the light itself. It's really easy to control, and the small but powerful light really has helped me wake up in the mornings.
I prefer it without sounds, though, similar to how I use the Loftie Lamp, but especially since snoozing the Dreamegg will turn both sound
light off. Most others only turn the sound off and leave the light on so you can keep rousing. I also found the sounds a little too relaxing, so just having the light blast my face until I got out of bed was the best method with this sunrise lamp.
Snoozing the Dreamegg turns the light and sound off
The WiiM Wake-Up Light is a small device, but it turns out to be surprisingly powerful. It has a companion app where you set up the sunrise and bedtime routines and can access a huge range of sounds—from the classics like white noise, thunderstorms, or a forest stream to more specific options like Healing Music for Insomnia (a gentle piano piece) or Santa Giulia Beach, which I can only assume was recorded on the French shore it's named after. There's also a big range of colors the WiiM can show, and it reminds me of a smart light bulb since it has color combinations and light shows to choose from. Even with the clock's small size, I found the reading light mode is a nice brightness to read a book by, though it didn't fill the room like the Lumie above. It also has one of the bigger sound libraries, with just over 100 sound and radio station options you can choose in the app to wake up or fall asleep to.
I really liked the app controls for the WiiM, which made it easy to set up my routines and even turn on relaxing sounds on a timer to enjoy before bed. The WiiM requires an active Wi-Fi connection to work, though, so if your Wi-Fi isn't stable, you could miss your alarm. It also offers Alexa integration and has a built-in microphone so that it can double as a smart home assistant (which, again, needs that stable Wi-Fi). I also don't love that when I go to quiet the alarm, both the sound and the light turn off. You can easily hit the light button to switch it back on, which I do to stay awake, but if you're a chronic snoozer you might want to set up backup alarms.
Is a much smaller light and can't double as a true bedside lamp
Snoozing the alarm turns off both the audio alarm and the light
Fun physical controls (flip to turn off, rotate to adjust brightness)
Sunrise and sunset settings, but both are only nine minutes
Absolutely fantastic as a lamp and dimmable bedroom light
This sunrise alarm works fine but seems better suited as a desk lamp than a true sunrise alarm. But it could be a fun pick if you live in a studio and need a device that can work for both your desk and your bedside alarm. It also has a USB-A charging port and can show time as 24- or 12-hour.
Philips SmartSleep Wake-Up Light (HF3520/60) for $149
This might sound similar to the lamp we recommend above, but it has a different shape and is missing the word “Sleep” from the name because it doesn't offer a nighttime routine like our top pick. But it still works great as a morning sunrise lamp, and similar to the other Philips model, it's easy to set up without any instructions on hand. It's a good affordable model, but not as cheap as other options with similar offerings.
This cute little clock worked fine, but our other picks are bigger and brighter. You could get the WiiM for the same price, or the Philips HF3520 for even cheaper.
This sunrise clock is pretty similar to the Luxe 700FM but doesn't have as many radio-forward features like the telescoping antenna and multiple channel-saving buttons, and the light controls aren't as easy as the dial. But if you don't mind those changes and want to spend less money, the Shine 300 is a great alternative choice.
The updated version of the popular Hatch Rest is the Hatch Baby, with a new look and app options similar to the Hatch Restore 3 above (previously the app options were much simpler, even though the devices all share the same Hatch Sleep app). This is a fun option for kids, though it doesn't do a gradual sunrises. It does, however, turn on fun colors and play music at certain times and for certain lengths. My 3-year-old looks forward to the “green light” turning on every morning (but this does not, unfortunately, motivate him to not leave his bed for mine at 4 in the morning.) You'll also get a six-month subscription to
Hatch isn't selling this model any longer, but you can find it refurbished on some third-party retailers and sites like Walmart and eBay. It's a fine device that gives you the same app and sound offerings as the Hatch Restore 3, but the Restore 3 has much better controls. I recommend skipping this device for the newer model, and it's only available refurbished from third-party retailers.
and feel sleepy as the sun sets. The light at both the beginning and end of the day is a warm, golden tone, unlike the midday bright, slightly blue sunlight that keeps you wide awake. A sunrise alarm clock mimics this transition from morning to bright daytime light, helping to signal your body to wake up (or fall asleep, if the clock also has a sunset option).
Each model we recommend offers a sunrise routine, meaning you choose a time to wake up and then the sunrise clock will start displaying a deep orange glow and transition to a bright light by the time your audio alarm is set for. Some offer customization, allowing you to choose how long you want that artificial sunrise to be, while others have set timers. Some also allow the reverse option with a sunset routine and can double as
and stay put, though sometimes there's a companion app or recharging capabilities (if it's not mentioned, though, assume it doesn’t).
There's a lot of features to consider in a sunrise lamp, but which ones that you'll like best vary by person.
splurge on a sunrise alarm with a nighttime or wind-down routine. These help build a routine for you to fall asleep to.
get a brighter sunrise clock that has easy controls to switch it on as a bedside lamp. Not all sunrise clocks have these, so check the details carefully (and reviews like ours)
check how many sounds are offered. Just about every sunrise clock has some sound machine features and options, but cheaper ones tend to only have a couple of sounds and might not have the sound you're looking for.
some options in this guide don't have a partner app or Wi-Fi capabilities, especially some of my favorites. An app doesn't necessarily make it a better sunrise clock, but it can be convenient to use. If you prefer an app to set up your sunrise lamp, shop the Casper, Hatch, Loftie, and WiiM.
Yes! I'm an especially heavy sleeper in the morning and these can still help me wake up. You might want to choose the most gradual increase of brightness on the sunrise lamp you choose, so that the slow brightening of the room can better slowly rouse you from that deep sleep.
What's the Difference Between a Sunrise Clock and a SAD Lamp?
These two gadgets might look similar on the outside, but sunrise clocks and other wake-up style lights are for waking you up, while a SAD or seasonal affective disorder lamp is designed to simulate sunlight for you during the day. SAD lamps
to help combat seasonal depression during darker times of the year, while sunrise alarms are just for making morning wake-up less rough. Both can help regulate your circadian rhythm, but in different ways. You could set a sunrise clock to stay on all day to help simulate sunlight, though these don't promise the same benefits and you might not get the help you're looking for.
If You Share a Bedroom, Can You Share a Sunrise Clock?
From my testing, I would say no, especially if you're both deep sleepers or struggle with waking up in the morning. While my sunrise alarm does brighten up the room to a certain extent, not all of them brighten the room fully. Even for the ones that do, the light is the strongest on the bedside table next to my face, and it wouldn't be the same experience without what feels to be bright sunlight shining through my closed eyelids. You'll both want your own wake-up light, and some lights are cheaper to buy in a pair
We research all models in advance to see which ones are a fit for testing. We look to ensure they have wake-up features (some SAD lamps will look similar to a sunrise alarm, for example, but if there's no gradual sunrise to wake up to they don't qualify for testing with this guide) and look to test a variety of price points and additional features to see what's really worth buying. We make an effort to select both more affordable options with less features and high-end options to compare and contrast against one another in our testing rounds.
I tested each recommended sunrise clock on my bedside in a room
to see how much it could really brighten a room over the course of its sunrise routine. I slept with each model for anywhere between one and seven nights, depending on its performance. I also tried out the various sound options each machine had to offer to both test the speakers and see how pleasant the sounds were to wake up or fall asleep to. If there was a nighttime routine option, I tested that too.
Get best-in-class reporting and exclusive subscriber content that's too important to ignore.
Nena Farrell is a writer and reviewer at WIRED. She primarily covers
. She’s been a reviewer at WIRED since 2023, and before that was a smart home updates writer at The New York Times’ Wirecutter and an associate ...
Elon Musk's Grokipedia Pushes Far-Right Talking Points
The new AI-powered Wikipedia competitor falsely claims that pornography worsened the AIDS epidemic and that social media may be fueling a rise in transgender people.
All-Clad’s Rotating Pizza Oven Is $800 Off List Price Today
The All-Clad pizza oven was one of my biggest surprises of the summer. For some reason, it's $800 off today.
All-Clad's Factory Seconds Sale Makes Gold-Standard Cookware More Affordable
All-Clad cookware is the best you can buy—and it has a price tag to match. This sale will stretch your dollars, but it ends in a few days.
Man Has Pig Kidney Removed After Living With It for a Record 9 Months
With the demand for human donor organs desperately outstripping supply, scientists are working to see if genetically edited pig organs can bridge the gap.
Sennheiser’s Awesome Wireless Earbuds Are Almost Half Off
These high-end earbuds sound great, and have a much-needed discount.
OpenAI Says Hundreds of Thousands of ChatGPT Users May Show Signs of Manic or Psychotic Crisis Every Week
OpenAI released initial estimates about the share of users who may be experiencing symptoms like delusional thinking, mania, or suicidal ideation, and says it has tweaked GPT-5 to respond more effectively.
The 7 Best Sunrise Alarm Clocks to Help You Rise and Shine
If you want to wake up with the sun but aren’t a morning person, these wake-up lights can simulate a sunrise whenever you want to rouse for the day. (And they do sunsets too.)
Gifts for Coworkers Who Are Hard to Shop for (so, All of Them)
You see them every single day (almost). Our curated guide features personalized gifts for every office personality, from your work bestie to the foodies.
Soup up your sound with these active and passive speakers. We have picks for every budget.
AI is changing what careers are possible for students interested in STEM subjects. WIRED spoke with five aspiring scientists to find out how they’re preparing for the future.
Hundreds of People With ‘Top Secret’ Clearance Exposed by House Democrats’ Website
A database containing information on people who applied for jobs with Democrats in the US House of Representatives was left accessible on the open web.
In recent times, there have been two techno-religious awakenings. Here comes the third?
WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.